<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

JURASSIC PARK

                                JURASSIC PARK

                                 First Draft

                                     by

                              MICHAEL CRICHTON

                                 Re-write by

                             MARIA SCOTCH MARMO

                                   3/14/92 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXTREME CLOSEUP of glowing honey-colored stones.  Their shapes ABSTRACT

as THE CAMERA EXAMINES air bubbles and crystalline patterns.

MOVING UP AND OVER this amber abstraction, the CAMERA FINDS unusual

shapes and imperfections caught in the glassy stone:  flecks of dirt,

hairs, cracks.  STILL MOVING.  STARBURSTS OF LIGHT ricochet off the

different surfaces of the stones.

CAMERA TURNS along a creamy stretch of amber.  IT TURNS IN DEEPER,

abstracting the picture further only to find A TINY BLUR that suddenly

RACKS INTO FOCUS - a bug, a mosquito lodged within an amber tomb.  It is

folded on its back.

SLOW MOTION

 as the tip of a fine-pointed drill bores into the amber

toward the trapped bug.  Orange flecks fly.  The mosquito trembles.  The

drill continues, stopping just before it touches the tiny body.

A SHINY PAIR of thin needle-nose pliers reach in the borehole and

extricate the mosquito remains.  These are dropped on a brightly lit

glass slide.  A conveyor belt starts, and the slide moves along.

arriving under a long-lensed microscope.

IN MICROSCOPIC PERSPECTIVE, a thin needle pierces the bug and delicately

removes a fragment of tissue.

PINCERS snare the fragment, dropping it into a narrow tube.  The tube

SPINS, faster and faster until it is a BLUR on the screen.

THE SCREEN FLOODS with an INFRA-RED LIGHT.  Gray, oval shapes rock in a

neutral mist.

                                                     WASH OUT TO:

HOT SUN overhead in a BIG SKY -

EXT  BADLANDS - AFTERNOON

Lodged in the cracked earth are the partially-exposed fossilized remains

of A VELOCIRAPTER, a carnivorous dinosaur.  WIDEN OUT to a SWEEPI

NG

PANORAMA of a dinosaur dig, a major excavation filled with workers

shoveling earth and stone, making measurements, taking photographs,

scribbling notes, and conferring with each other.

The center of all this activity is one man.  In a roped-off area that

circumscribes the exposed bones of the raptor, is DR. ALAN GRANT, head

paleontologist.  Good-looking, late 30's, with a think beard.

Grant lies on his belly, completely absorbed in a small piece of bone.

A GROUP OF TWELVE STUDENTS, notebooks in hand, await his next sentence.

CLOSE ON - the tiny bone.  Grant's nose touches it.

Grant brushes the bone with a toothbrush.  Then he decides on a quicker

way to clean it.  He licks it.  Excited by his discovery, he gets to his

feet and addresses his students, who listen raptly.

                            GRANT

          Right calcaneus of an adult female

          raptor.  Mild stress fractures.  What's

          this tell me?

Students look at each other.  A tentative hand.  Grant continues.

             GRANT

          It tells me that this bone connects to

          the navicula which we already found

          articulating to the cuboid.

OFFSCREEN, a woman SHOUTS to him.

                            ELLIE (off)

          Dr. Grant!  Dr. Grant!

Grant looks up.

DR. ELLIE SATTLER, late 20's, sharp-eyed, tough if she wants to be, runs

like a gazelle across the arid land.  Exuberant, she leaves a trail of

dust behind her.

She zips by A STUDENT guarding the cordoned area.  He tries to stop her.

                            STUDENT

          Dr. Sattler!  Dr. Grant is thinking!

Dr. Grant waves her over enthusiastically with his bone and continues.

                            GRANT

          So, what can we stay for sure?  Stress

          fractures in the heel ...

Uncertain students.  Ellie arrives and immediately gets into it.

                            ELLIE

          She jumps.

Grant turns around to her and smiles.  She's got it.  Other students to

- they knew is all along.

                GRANT

          Right as rain, Ellie.  Now, why did she

          jump?

No answer.  Ellie gives it a try.

                            ELLIE

          A defensive posture against a vicious,

          blood-thirsty T-Rex?

                            GRANT

              (nodding)

          Perhaps.  Or maybe to select the smaller,

          more tender leaves in the higher branches

          with which to suckle her young?

Ellie jumps up.

                            ELLIE

          I bet is was a mating ritual.

Students laugh.  One student eyes Grant's self-conscious smile at Ellie.

                            GRANT

          The science of paleontology can't answer

          these questions.  Novelists and artists

          who dream a vision of the Jurassic period

          can attempt these questions with their

          imaginations.  What we scientists can say

          is considering the mass and kinetic

          articulation of these bones, this animal

          had a vertical leap

 of about twelve feet.

          Not as entertaining as fiction, but

          absolutely fact without prejudice.

Ellie intrudes again.

                            ELLIE

          Excuse me, Dr. Grant.  But ... fact is,

          we're late.  There's the car.

She points.  On the horizon, a limousine speeds toward them, leaving a

dusty wake.

Grant sets the rules for his departure, giving instructions individually

as Ellie pulls him away, carrying their bags.

                            GRANT

          Jim, you keep making up the plaster

          batches.  Whatever ratio you're using,

          it's perfect.  Nora, no digging after

          five - when the temperature drops, those

          bones are just too brittle.  Bill, I

          don't want any tourists walking over my

          raptor - I don't care if the Governor of

          Montana is with them, just you guys.

Grant and Ellie continue walking.  She interrupts his continued barrage.

                            ELLIE

          You know, if ev

ery scientist stuck to his

          method like you, there would be no body

          of theory - no quasars, no big bang -

Grant stops at the sight of the stopped limo and freezes.

                            GRANT

          Jesus, a limousine.  We're re-entering

          Hammond's world, that's for sure.  (beat)

          Remind me why we're doing this, Ellie.

Ellie is gentle.  She's telling him something they've discussed before.

                            ELLIE

          We're leaving the raptor dig -

                            GRANT

          - at a critical time -

                            ELLIE

          - because Gennaro is paying us sixty

          thousand dollars to observe some resort

          of Hammond's in Costa Rica. And that's -

                            GRANT

          - enough money to keep us free of

          commercial affiliations for two summers.

          All right, all right.  Good.

Then, half-kidding with Ellie:

                            GRANT

          Financial

 independence for fraternizing

          with the enemy?  (beat)  I'll do it.

She laughs.  But he can't quite leave.  He grabs a computer printout

                            GRANT

          This is all could come up with, Skip?

Skip turns the printout right-side up in Grant's hand.  Grant smiles.

                            GRANT

          Wise guy.  Let's go, Ellie.

Grant and Ellie board the limo amidst many goodbyes from the students.

The limo pulls away.

EXT  HIGH TECH BUILDING - BIOGENETIC CORPORATION HQ - SUNSET

A purple sunset irradiates the exterior glass walls of the building.

INT  BIOGEN HQ

A peanut flies in the air.  Then falls into a big open mouth.  THOMP.

                            MOUTH

          Five hundred thousand is peanuts!

He tosses another peanut and misses his open mouth.  This is DENNIS

NEDRY, a 40 year old computer programmer.  He's fat, with greasy hair

and a permanently wrinkled suit.  His slovenly looks are wildly out of

place on the rich leather sofa where he reclin

es.

Across a gleaming granite coffee table is BILL BAKER, businessman.  A

smooth meticulous dresser, Baker is disgusted by Nedry's sloppy

appearance and voracious consumption of food and drink.

Nedry finishes a coke.  Over his shoulder is an impressive skyline view.

                            NEDRY

          I'm not reneging.  I'm re-evaluating.

Nedry holds the can of coke upside-down, drains the last drops.

                            NEDRY

          You think I'm a scumbag, I know.

Nedry chuckles, lines up three peanuts on the table.  One after the

other, he throws them in the air.  He gulps down two, misses one. It

skids across the glossy floor.

Baker's head involuntarily cocks as he looks disgustedly at Nedry.

                            NEDRY

          Look pal, you make a career in biogenetic

          industrial espionage, and you're bound to

          run across a scumbag or two.  Guaranteed!

          Part of the job description.  Look, who's

          to say, who is the real scumbag?  After

          all, I know what you guys need so bad.

          I've heard of reverse engineering.

As Nedry continues he shovels nuts into his mouth and CHOMPS and SPEAKS.

                            NEDRY

          Let the other guy put in all the work,

          all the R and D.  You take the finished

          product, work backwards, breaking it down

          to reveal its genetic code.  Presto!  In

          a few measly months you have know-how

          that took researchers ten years to

          determine.  You know how much Hammond has

          invested of his own personal wealth?

          Over five billion dollars!  And if you

          guys get the jump on his - in no time,

          the market's wide-open.

Nedry starts the LAUGH as he EATS and TALKS.

                            NEDRY

          But, boy, he's really got his product!

          Oh yes siree, massive, gargantuan, money-

          making, never-heard-of-profit-like-that

          product.  It is a sight!  Yes, indeedy!

Nedry LAUGH

S explosively.  He begins to choke, COUGHING and GASPING.

Baker is repulsed.  He stares out the window as the sun sets.

Nedry, in true distress, clutches his own throat.  He clumsily runs

toward Baker, toppling chairs as he goes.  Nedry grabs Baker's hand and

squeezes it tightly, imploring Baker for help.  Baker coolly shakes his

hand loose and shoves Nedry to the floor.  Baker looks down at the prone

and desperate Nedry.

                            BAKER

          Scumbag.  We have a deal.  That deal is

          not open to renegotiation.  Or even re-

          evaluation.

Bakers kneels down next to Nedry, who is beginning to turn blue.

                            BAKER

          The deal stands.  Take it or leave it.

Baker glances at his watch.

                            BAKER

          I'll give you a few minutes to decide.

Nedry makes a superhuman effort just to nod his head.  Baker nods back

and SLAMS his fist into Nedry's solar plexus.  It works.

Nedry sucks in a huge gulp of air.  He sits up

, rubbing his belly.  As

Baker leaves the room:

                            BAKER

          Make sure the eggs are on that supply

          ship.  Just make sure!

CAMERA LEAVES NEDRY and exits the window.    IT SWISHPANS the concrete

canyons of Wall Street and enters another office.

INT  CONSERVATIVE LAW OFFICE - DAY

DONALD GENNARO, handsome,  meticulously dressed, paces the highly

polished, glassy corner suite.  His boss, ROSS, is seated.  He's a

powerful black man who waves a prosthetic arm.

                            ROSS

          We can't trust Hammond anymore.  He's

          under too much pressure.  There's the

          EPA, he's behind schedule, and the in-

          vestors are getting nervous.  There have

          been too many rumors, too many accidents.

          We can't screw around with this.

                            GENNARO

          I've asked Hammond to arrange independent

          site inspections every week for the next

          three weeks.

                            ROS

S

          What does he say?

                            GENNARO

          Insists nothing's wrong on the island.

                            ROSS

          You know him.  Do you believe him?

                             GENNARO

          No, I don't.  I spent a lot of time with

          him five years ago when we raised the

          capital.  And it was a wild ride.  He's

          unpredictable, a dreamer.

                            ROSS

          Potentially dangerous.  We should never

          have gotten involved.  What's our position?

                            GENNARO

          The firm owns five percent.

                            ROSS

          General or limited?

                            GENNARO

          General.

                            ROSS

          We should have never done that.

                            GENNARO

          It seemed wise at the time.  We all

          wanted the park to happen.  It was in

          lieu of fees.

                            ROSS

  In any case, I agree an inspection is

          overdue.  Who are your site experts?

Gennaro tosses a list on Ross' desk.  He check it out.

                            ROSS

          Will they tell the truth?

                            GENNARO

          I think so.  That guy Grant's a hotshot

          in his field, always goes his own way -

                            ROSS

          - Good.  You're making all the arrangements?

                            GENNARO

          Hammond asked to place the calls himself.

          I think he wants to pretend the park is

          not in trouble.  That it's just a social

          invitation, showing off the island.

                            ROSS

          All right ... Good.  But let's be very

          clear about one thing.  I don't know how

          bad this situation actually is, Donald.

          But if there's a problem on that island -

          don't be afraid to screw Hammond and burn

          Jurassic Park to the ground.

Gennaro shakes hands 

awkwardly with Ross and leaves.  Ross paces.  Fed-

up, he whispers to himself.

                            ROSS

          Costa Rica, my ass.

He whacks his desk globe, sends its spinning.

CAMERA MOVES IN on spinning globe as we HEAR the ROTOR BLADES of a

helicopter and DISSOLVE TO:

INT/EXT  HELICOPTER IN SKY - DAWN

On the helicopter tail is a little blue logo that reads: Isla Nublar.

INSIDE, Grant, Ellie and Gennaro are in the right back row.  Ellie

dozes, her head occasionally dropping onto Grant's shoulder, to his

discomfort.  Gennaro looks at papers, trying not to look through the

clear plexi-bubble at their feet.  Next to THE PILOT, Nedry chews a

candy bar.  He offers candy to the back row.

Grant loses himself, looking out the window.

GRANT'S POV - the aquamarine blue of the ocean.  Below the waters there

are the shadows of ample marine life.  Dolphins leap in the air.

Suddenly the clear scene becomes obscured by clouds.

There is turbulence.  Ellie wakes, glances at Grant, then out the

window.  

There is mist and she absently traces her finger in it, shaping

a dinosaur figure.  Now land comes into view and for a moment, the

island below them eerily fits right into her doodling.

                            PILOT

          That's Isla Nublar.  Buckle up, the

          descent is a little hairy.

Gennaro cinches his belt tightly and half-shuts his eyes.  Nedry takes

out a sandwich and cockily loosens his belt.  Ellie looks every way.

                            ELLIE

          This is exciting!

                            GRANT

          What is, Ellie?  Where are we going?

Grant looks out his window. The helicopter rushes forward, low to the

water.  Ahead, Grant sees the island, rugged and craggy, rising sharply

                            GRANT

          Looks like Alcatraz.

The pilot coughs and rubs his goggles with the back of his hand.

                            PILOT

          There's bad wind shear on this peak.

Grant nods.  Gennaro sweats, watching the pilot tighten his own belt.

Ellie

 smiles excitedly as the helicopter starts down.  Now, A BLANKET

FOG.  Grant can't see a thing out his window.  Ellie's startled.

                            ELLIE

          How the hell is he landing this thing?

No answer.  Grant dimly discerns green branches of pine trees through

the mist.  Some are very close.  Ellie's hands grasps her seat cushion.

                            ELLIE

          This is not fun.

Grant looks through the plexi-bubble at his feet.  He sees the giant

glowing fluorescent cross below.  Lights FLASH at corners of the cross.

                            GRANT

          Relax, Ellie.  I'm sure they wouldn't

          land if it weren't safe.

The copter suddenly SHAKES violently.  Ellie grabs Grant's hand.

Gennaro sits straight up, eyes squeezed shut.

                            GRANT

          Gennaro?  This guy knows what he's doing,

          Right?  Hey, Gennaro?  I'm talking to you!

Another violent shake.  Grant squeezes Ellie's hand back.

CLOSEUP - Nedry's hand crushes a 

packet of crackers.

Gennaro is soaked.  He opens one eye and looks about, very frightened.

He speaks a mantra.

                            GENNARO

          No problem.  Relax, relax.

The pilot whispers to himself and corrects slightly.  The copter sails

sharply the other way.

                            GRANT AND ELLIE

          Whoa!!!!

CLOSE ON - the pilot jerks back the stick.

THE COPTER zooms upward.  Grant's beverage flips to the ground, pours

across the floor.

Nedry's lunch does flying.  Sandwich, candy, and cracker crumbs hang

suspended in the air.  Now it all FREE-FALLS onto Nedry's lap.

Grant and Ellie lean tightly into each other,

                            ELLIE

          I don't like this feeling ...

The pilot swings his gaze, left then right, looking at the pine forest.

Trees are close, then far, then close.  The helicopter drops rapidly.

Ellie and Grant shut their eyes.  They brace themselves for the worst.

IN AND OUT OF THE MIST, the copter descends.  Tail raised high, nose

low, fo

r a moment it looks like a strange bug-eyes prehistoric animal

bucking in its pen.  In a flash, it corrects itself.  The copter touches

down on a heli-pad.  The SOUND of the rotors fades and dies.

For a second, no one moves.  Grant lets out a great sigh of relief.

Gennaro mouths a silent prayer.  The pilot stretches his fingers.

Grant and Ellie self-consciously shake their hands free of each other.

Nedry unbuckles and laughs as he brushes off his lap.  He turns:

                            NEDRY

          Just think, Gennaro -

              (laughs harder)

          - you gotta agree it's funny!  These two,

          they dig up dinosaurs!  It's wonderful,

          isn't it?

Nedry pats Grant on his shoulder.

                            NEDRY

          Dr. Bones, you're going to love this place.

Nedry bursts out laughing again as he heads out the helicopter door.

A smile comes across Gennaro's face.  As he smiles he motions with his

hands he doesn't mean any harm.  Grant and Ellie stare at him.

                      PILOT

          Come on folks.  Gotta get back, there's a

          storm alert.

ROTORS TURN.  OUTSIDE, a man reaches the copter.  He wears a baseball

cap over short red hair and he's dressed in phony safari garb.  He

shakes Gennaro's hand.  This is ED REGIS, 35, head of Public Relations.

He throws open the copter door next to Grant.  Big, cheerful smile.

                            REGIS

          Hi!  Ed Regis.  Real big welcome to Isla

          Nublar, Dr. Grant, Dr. Sattler.  Little

          tough landing here, I know.  But you did

          it!  Come on down, we're so happy to have

          you.  Now, watch your step.

Ellie and Grant jump into the world of Jurassic Park.

EXT  LUSH TROPICAL FOREST - MORNING

Grant takes in the beautiful tropical terrain.  This place is the

opposite of the Badlands.  There is elaborate planting everywhere:

huge, hairy ferns; exotic, spiked flowers; berries of every color;

rushing vines.  Peeking through the thick greenery are beautiful birds

a

nd flying squirrels.  The strange, prehistoric world impresses Grant

and Ellie.  Even Nedry and Gennaro take in the vegetal wonder.

Then, the SOUND of men working, grunting from exertion.  Ahead, Muldoon

directs A GROUP OF WORKMEN.  Flame-throwers roar and machetes fight back

the abundant foliage.  As they attack a new area, Regis waves Muldoon

over.  Muldoon has a pronounced limp as he walks over to join them.

                            ED REGIS

          This is Robert Muldoon, great African big

          game hunter.  And he's working for us now.

          Doing a bang-up job, too.

Muldoon rests his rifle by a tree stump and shakes with Grant and Ellie.

                            MULDOON

          Ed's a little more BS than PR.  Mr.

          Gennaro, nice to have you back.

Gennaro nods warmly as Muldoon limps back to work.

Regis leads on, taking Gennaro's arm and talking to him like and old

friend.  Nedry lumbers in the middle, alone.  At the rear, Grant and

Ellie study everything they see.  Grant

 calls to Regis but is ignored.

                            GRANT

          Mr. Regis, what is the nature of this park?

Ellie looks behind and sees cramped ferns spring out to capture the path

they just walked on.  She nudges Grant, who has seen the same.

                            ELLIE

          Aggressive growth, huh?

                            GRANT

          Hammond's trademark.

A distinct HOOTING in the distance.  Then a loud TRUMPETING.  Grant and

Ellie stop.  Nedry doesn't look up.  Regis flashes his salesman's smile.

                            REGIS

          Out animals are greeting you!

They pass a crude sign nailed to a tree:  Welcome to Jurassic Park.

Grant cringes at the sign.  Ellie nudges him to loosen up.

                            GRANT

          I hope this isn't one of those animatronic

          exhibits in a Jurassic botanical setting.

                            NEDRY

          Nope.

Gennaro wipes his brow.  They enter a green tunnel of over-arching palm

that leads to the 

VISITOR'S CENTER, a modern complex in the distance.

Ellie notices a large fence hidden in the brush.  She nudges Grant.

THEIR POV - CAMERA SLOWLY CLIMBS a fifteen foot high chain-link fence.

The needle-spiked top of this fence cuts deep into the brush.

This fence is only the prelude.

Sprawling massively above and behind it is a thirty foot high fence.

Woven throughout the fence's mesh is an intricate system of electrical

wire.  There is a prominent warning:  DANGER!  ELECTRIC FENCE: TEN

THOUSAND VOLTS - KEEP OFF!

CAMERA KEEPS CLIMBING to the top:  ominous barbed wire, curled into the

highest growth with coiled razors glistening in the sun.

Grant strains to understand.  The quickens his steps to catch the others.

They reach a clearing with an unfinished brick sidewalk and potted shade

trees waiting for planting.  A crosshatching of tiny lizards scamper off

the walk.  An empty swimming pool is being filled by A MAN with a pumper

truck.  Next to him, WORKERS water the large ferns.

     REGIS

          I hope you brought your bathing suits!

          Doesn't this mist and these plants really

          create a bonafide prehistoric feeling?

Regis points to a low building with glass pyramids on the roof.

                            REGIS

          There's the Visitor's Center.

A CRANE lowers an iron grating on top of one pyramid.  An animal TRUMPETS.

INT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY

CLOSE ON - the iron security grating as it fits over a glass skylight.

Above, MASKED WORKERS weld it on.  Sparks fly.

Grant stares up at it, thinking.  Footsteps echo behind him as Regis,

Ellie, Gennaro, and Nedry look around the unfinished building.

The Visitor's Center is two stories high, a lot of glass with exposed

girders and supports.  It's incomplete:  vines swing in the breeze where

the back wall will go and undressed cables litter the floor.  Even so,

exhibit areas are in varying stages of completion.  Behind, SEVERAL

SPANISH WORKERS unpack masonry supplies.

                            GRANT

     Where's Hammond?

                            REGIS

          Mr. Hammond is dying to see you guys.

Grant strides over to an exhibit as Gennaro paces impatiently.

                            GENNARO

          Hot, hot, hot.  Ten billion bucks and the

          air conditioning sucks.

Regis smiles apologetically and pushes open a large window on one of the

finished walls.  Giant leaves and vines burst inside.

Grant studies an exhibit in progress entitled When Dinosaurs Rules the

World.  This is a large clock that presents millions of years as hours

in a single day.  Many brightly colored hours are allocated to the

dinosaurs.  Man receives the last second of the day.  Ellie joins Grant.

                            ELLIE

          The audicity of man to get here at the

          last second and think he runs the show.

Grant smiles at her inexhaustible enthusiasm.  He looks at a painted

mural of a Raptor on one of the walls in the half-completed gift shop.

Nedry is at a coke machine, feeding in change

.  It doesn't work.  He

SLAMS his hand against it, and finally, a cup drops down the chute.

Upside-down.  It pours.  Coke splashes Nedry.  He curses and exits.

THE ROTUNDA - Ellie pulls Grant over to a raised, round display with a

catwalk.  In this unfinished display, a skeletal T-Rex and a Raptor are

locked in combat.  Scaffolding is up around it, and painting supplies

are scattered all around.

Regis glances at his watch, looks up, and smiles.

At that moment, doors adjacent to the rotunda swing open automatically.

A soothing female voice comes out of the public address system.

                            VOICE (ON P.A.)

          Please come to the theater.  In a moment,

          our film will begin.

The voice goes on to give this information in a number of languages.

Regis waves everyone into the theater.   Nedry doesn't join them.  He

climbs the stairs to the second floor.

INT  SCREENING ROOM - DAY

Small and plush.  Regis sits in the front, full of enthusiasm.  Grant and

Ellie sit further behind. 

 Gennaro stands in the back and smokes.

CELESTIAL MUSIC fills the room.  Mist covers and curls on the stage

floor.  Colored spotlights illuminate the mist in an eerie fashion.

overall effect is the touristy Where's NY? high-gloss production.

years young, with a glint in his eye and very comfortable with his own

effect.  He wears a white linen suit with a red rose in the breast

pocket.  Like an elder Carl Sagan, he addresses the group.

                            HAMMOND

          Welcome, ladies and gentlemen.  Welcome

          to an ancient and mysterious world, a

          world long before humankind inhabited it

          with all out remarkable dreams and

          questions.  Enter a world that existed

          one hundred million years ago.  When our

          changing earth was the abode of

          magnificent creations.

          Today, the late twentieth century has

          witnessed a scientific gold rush of

          astonishing proportions:  the headlong

          and furious haste to un

ravel the mystery

          of genetic engineering has become more

          than just a subject for science fiction

          writers.

ON GRANT - he whispers to Ellie.

                            GRANT

          - the furious haste to commercialize

          genetic engineering.

BACK ON HAMMOND - he warms to his subject.

                            HAMMOND

          Biotechnology promises the greatest

          revolution in human history.  It will

          outdistance atomic power and computers in

          its effects on our everyday lives.  We'll

          see square trees for easy lumbering and

          white trout for super visibility to

          fisherman.  Why it will transform every

          aspect of human life: out medical care,

          our food, our health, even our very

          entertainment.

ON GRANT - confirmed in his thinking, he whispers again.

                            GRANT

          Here we go.

BACK ON HAMMOND - he concludes.

                            HAMMOND

Nothing will ever be the same again.

          It's literally going to change the face

          of our planet as we know it.

MUSIC SOARS.  Hammond smiles appreciatively, removes his rose.  A screen

descends behind him.

                            HAMMOND

          ... Jurassic Park.  What we do here is

          made possible through the miracle of DNA

          replication, commonly known as cloning.

          To explain what cloning means, I'm going

          to need my own clone - John Hammond.

Another Hammond appears, projected on the screen beside the real one.

                            2ND HAMMOND

          Hi, John!

                            HAMMOND

          Hi, John.

IN THE AUDIENCE - Ellie laughs aloud.  Grant, shaking his head, smiles.

BACK ON HAMMOND - The original speaks to the clone.

                            HAMMOND

          Okay John, hold out your finger.

                            2ND HAMMOND

          Why?

                            HAMMOND

          I need some of your

 genetic material.

                            2ND HAMMOND

          Now just a minute here, John.

                            HAMMOND

          Your genetic material is the same in

          every cell of your body.  You have a

          hundred billion cells.  You won't miss a

          couple.

Hammond holds his rose to the screen the pricks his clone's finger with

a thorn.

                            2ND HAMMOND

          OW!!!  That hurt!  Hey, what's -

The clone dissolves into a cascade of blood as WE SEE a magnified view

of the bloodstream.  ANIMATION begins which illuminates the parts of the

blood and its actions.  Hammond provides voiceover for the visuals.

                            HAMMOND

          John, let's look into your blood, the

          river of life.  There's your white cells,

          exquisitely evolved to clean up bodily

          wastes.  And there's a mighty nucleus,

          the heart and brain of a cell.  This

          nucleus has an amazing property.  It can

          sp

lit in half and reproduce itself.

          That's how it grows.  And then those two

          can do it again.  And again.  Making copy

          after copy of itself.

Back to the two Hammond's.  Joined by a third, then a fourth, and so on

until the screen is crammed with Hammond's, elbowing each other for room.

                            NEW HAMMOND'S

          Hi, I'm John Hammond.  Hey, I'm John

          Hammond.  No, I am.  I am.

                            HAMMOND

          Come on, that's enough of this!  And I

          thought to reproduce myself I had to do it

          the old-fashioned way.

New mist fades out this show.  The lights go up.  Regis applauds.  Grant

joins in the laughter with Ellie and Gennaro.

Hammond jumps down from the stage and greets Gennaro and Regis.

                            HAMMOND

          That's all we've got so far.  A lot of

          fun, isn't it, Mr. Gennaro?

                            REGIS

          You bet!

Hammond greets Grant and Ellie warmly.  Then 

Hammond baits Grant.

                            HAMMOND

          It's been a long time, Alan.  I know the

          preceding was not your sort of enter-

          tainment.  Popular science -

                            GRANT

          No, I don't mind popular science.  I dislike

          the commercialization of science.  It breeds

          a sloppiness, a disregard for method.

                            HAMMOND

          Well, I don't disregard method.  But think

          of mutation - which is nothing more than

          sloppy communication on the cellular

          level.  Think how triumphant mutations

          have been in natural selection.

          Oh, but I know what you're saying.  It's

          true that I have never been afraid to make

          money with science.  I've always

          considered profit to be a measure of

          success, a barometer of public reaction.

                            GRANT

          Mr. Hammond, the essential truth of a

          scientific law ha

s nothing to do with

          public reaction.  Water freezes at

          thirty-two degrees, whether you pay for

          it or not.

Hammond turns to Gennaro.  Gennaro smiles nervously at their clash.

                            HAMMOND

          Donald, in bringing my old friend, Alan

          Grant, you've brought an excellent critic

          to observe the viability of my island and

          out venture.  I look forward to winning

          you over, Dr. Grant.

                            ELLIE

          Just what is it you're trying to clone?

EXT  A SPRAWLING LAWN - DAY

Outside, Hammond leads Gennaro, Grant and Ellie.  He points out the

staff living quarters, a group of graceful teepees.  Next to their

homes, WORKERS hang laundry and cook on grills.

They pass a large Mechanical Building.  The generator housed within is

very LOUD.  The wind increases, rippling clothes.

Suddenly, the SOUND of a speeding jeep.  Grant turns.

Racing across the rolling green landscape is A RED JEEP.  Muldoon is 

at

the steering wheel.  Two kids bounce happily around in the open jeep.

They are TIMMY, 9, and LEX, 6, brother and sister.  The jeep stops.

                            LEX

          Grandpa!

Hammond looks up, delighted.  Arms open.  Gennaro pulls him close.

                            GENNARO

              (incredulous)

          Mr. Hammond, this is a serious investiga-

          tion of the island, not a weekend

          excursion or a social outing.  We're

          talking about the safety of this place!

Hammond waves to the children.

                            HAMMOND

          I'm aware of that.  But I built this

          place for children.  You can't

          investigate it without their reactions.

          They're what this place is all about.

Hammond beams to Grant and Ellie and indicates the running kids.

                            HAMMOND

          My grandchildren.  Genetics were kind.

          They're more like my ex-wife than me.

Lex jumps right into her Grandpa's arms.  Timmy s

hyly walks up and

embraces him.  Hammond shines.  Gennaro holds in his fury.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY

Hammond ushers his guests into his own richly appointed baronial suite.

Ellie looks out a small window at the tee-pees and the contrasting

lifestyle below.  She then focuses on the high fence, circling the

perimeter of Hammond's quarters.  Above is a skylight, with metal bars.

Grant whispers to her, indicating the obviously modified window frame.

                            GRANT

          Who makes a windows ... smaller?

Timmy smacks him forehead, points to Grant.

                            TIMMY

          I know you.  You wrote my book.  Lost

          World of The Dinosaurs.  It's awesome.

                            LEX

          Timmy's got dinosaurs on the brain.

                            GRANT

          Don't worry - he'll grow out of it.

                            ELLIE

          Dr. Grant's embarrassed that his book was

          so widely successful.  He wrote if for

          gra

duate students.

Hammond smiles intensely.  But he's patient.  He stands be a huge table

covered with a sumptuous velvet drape.

                            HAMMOND

          Although Dr. Grant suspects otherwise,

          this is not an ill-conceived, half-baked,

          poorly funded plan that I've headed.

          This is a plan to which I committed all

          of my personal resources, literally

          billions of dollars.  And Donald Gennaro

          here has kindly helped me raise that sum

          again from wealthy Japanese.  They love

          theme parks.  I have recruited pre-

          eminent scientific minds from hallowed

          universities and we've taken the time to

          do things right.

Lex peeks under the cloth.  Hammond smiles at her and recovers the table.

                            HAMMOND

          Jurassic Park is the most advanced

          amusement park in the world.  We work

          with genetics - life's essential building

          blocks - to create new 

worlds.  I set out

          to make biological attractions.  Living

          attractions.  Attractions so astonishing

          that they'd capture the imagination of

          the entire world.

                            GRANT

          What exactly do you mean ... biological

          attractions?

                            HAMMOND

          As you well know, long ago, creatures ten

          times larger than whales roamed our

          adolescent Earth.  And then mass,

          mysterious extinction created a time

          barrier unscalable until ... now.

BEAT.

                            GRANT

          Yes?

                            HAMMOND

          Dinosaurs.

              (superbly proud)

          I've been cloning dinosaurs!

CAMERA PUSHES IN on Grant's incredulous face.

Hammond whips off the drape, revealing a complex and detailed scale

model of the entire resort.

                            HAMMOND

          Ladies and Gentlemen, Jurassic Park.  Not

          a resort, not a scien

tific conservatory,

          just a little piece of pre-history that

          every child in the whole wide world will

          insist on visiting.

Hammond grins with delight.

                            GENNARO

          At least every rich child.

Grant and Ellie come forward to examine the model.  The kids crowd in.

CAMERA SNORKELS through the model - revealing different enclosures with

miniature dinosaurs, moats, fences, roads, a river.

                            HAMMOND

          Apatosaurs in the lowland.  Gallimimus in

          the grassy plain.  Dilophosaurus above

          the river.  The mighty Tyrannosaurus Rex!

          238 fabulous creatures so far!

                            TIMMY

          Real dinosaurs, Grandpa?  Don't they want

          to just kill each other?

Hammond excitedly punches a button - colored display grids light up.

                            HAMMOND

          Timmy, there's electric fences and moats

          and video surveillance at all times.

          There

 are monitors every hundred feet

          whatever we could plant them on the

          island.  A computer to tabulate it all.

                            ELLIE

          You created dinosaurs?  Who gave you the

          right to do that?

                            HAMMOND

          I didn't create them.  I found a way to

          wake them up, to stir them out of their

          prehistoric slumber.

                            GRANT

          We don't have the science.  There's no

          source of dinosaur DNA.

Hammond's proud, excited face shifts to one that divulges modestly.

                            HAMMOND

          Yes ... there is.

INT  HALLWAY, UPPER FLOOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY

Hammond leads Grant, Ellie, Gennaro, Timmy, and Lex out of an elevator

and down an endless corridor.  A WORKMAN ON CRUTCHES passes them.

They go through a series of security doors.  To get them open, Hammond

places his palm on a screen before each door.  Each time, it lights up

with an x-ray-like image of 

his hand and each door HISSES open.

CLOSEUP - Security x-ray. of Hammond's hand.  BEEP.  A red line writes

through the screen.  Can't get in.  Complaining, under his breath:

                            HAMMOND

          Glitches.

Hammond tries again.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - DAY

The door HISSES open, revealing an elaborate technology-crammed room.

In dim light, clusters of computer consoles and video monitors glow.

Nedry sits in a corner at a keyboard with a pile of papers next to him,

typing away.  JOHN ARNOLD, 45, park supervisor, sits directing the

activities of the park and chain-smoking.  There are large windows

looking out to the park, one of which is cracked and being replaced from

the outside by a TEAM OF WORKMEN.

Hammond wears a big smile as he leads in his entourage.  He's the

ringmaster.

                            HAMMOND

          And this is the right side of my brain.

          The entire park is safely controlled from

          here.  John Arnold, that genius over

          there, is the m

aster control operator.

              (with genuine concern)

          John, don't smoke so much, you're far too

          valuable a man to me.

                            ARNOLD

          Oh, you'd survive just fine without me.

Arnold exhales smoke and waves good-naturedly.  Nedry stares darkly at

Hammond, who ignores him.

                            HAMMOND

          Everything's controlled from here.

          Remote everything. Cars, feeding

          programs, medicine dispensers, fecal

          clean up - and that can be tons in a park

          like this.  We run this place with twenty

          workers.  This computer does it all.  And

          it polices each and every single animal

          out there.

                            ELLIE

              (whispers to Grant)

          Who polices the computer?

Hammond points up.  Overlooking the control room and the park is a

raised platform with a huge chair, like a throne in a court.  A large

video screen faces this chair.

       HAMMOND

          That's where I will watch the astonished

          watchers.  Okay, let's go.

They practically race as a group to keep up with Hammond.  The security

door seals shit, leaving Nedry and Arnold alone again.

                            NEDRY

          Thanks for the kind word, Mr. Hammond.

                            ARNOLD

          Come on, Dennis, he knows your technical

          contributions have made it all possible.

                            NEDRY

          Right.

BACK ON HALLWAY -

Hammond and his group turn off the corridor and reach a door marked:

CAUTION: Teratogenic Substances.  Timmy backs off, grabs Lex's arm.

                            TIMMY

          That stuff turns you into a mutant!

He contorts his face into strange shapes.  As Hammond leads them all in

Lex pulls on his pocket.

                            HAMMOND

          Don't mind the signs.  They're only legal

          precautions.

Gennaro frowns.  The door opens and Lex peeks in.

          HAMMOND

          My laboratory, Lex.  It will be yours and

          Timmy's someday.

INT  AMBER ROOM, LABORATORY - CONTINUING ACTION

Grant and Ellie share a baffled look.  Grant stares.

Grant's POV - PAN ACROSS a room filled with honey-colored glowing stones

arranged on glass shelves in large pull-out trays.  Each stone is tagged

and numbered.

Grant leans down, studying the stones.  He bumps right into Gennaro.

Lex jumps excitedly.

                            LEX

          It's ... gold!

                            TIMMY

          It's amber.  Fossilized tree sap.

                            LEX

          Grandpa found gold.

Grant shushes the kids and looks to Hammond.

                            HAMMOND

          You're both right.  Amber is our gold.

          The alpha or our alchemic alphabet.  The

          precious course of our genetic material.

          You already know amber is the fossilized

          resin of prehistoric tree sap, of course.

Grant and Ellie nod impatiently. 

 Hammond sets the scene.

                            HAMMOND

          Imagine - millions of years ago, tree sap

          flowing over insects, as it does now as I

          speak, in thousands of forests and backyard

          trees everywhere.  Imagine that ancient sap

          trapping a little struggling insect and

          consuming it in a syrupy death.  Millions

          and millions of years pass and we come

          along and discover this prehistoric insect.

          If we're lucky, he's perfectly preserved in

          a fossil form inside the hardened sap which

          is now amber.  And as we examine more and

          more amber, we find many perished insects,

          including among them, biting insects -

                            GRANT

          Like mosquitos -

                            HAMMOND

          Like mosquitos, precisely, Dr. Grant.

                            GRANT

          Mosquitos that sucked the blood of

          dinosaurs.  That's your source of DNA

  material?  My God!  It just might work.

INT  EXTRACTION ROOM, LABORATORY

A TECHNICIAN carefully positions a piece of amber under a fine-pointed

drill.  With a nod, the technician's goggles drop from his forehead onto

his eyes and he starts up the drill.  Hammond yells over the loud WHIRR.

                            HAMMOND

          The extraction room speaks for itself.

CLOSE ON - drillbit boring into the amber.  Orange fleck fly.

                            GRANT

          It does?

The technician shuts the drill.  Placing his hands into a mounted pair

of gloves, he operates an automated pair of needle-nose pliers to

carefully lift out the remains of a mosquito.  He drops this bug on a

slide and places this slide on a tray full of such slides.

                            LEX

          That's a million year old mosquito?

A conveyor belt starts, carrying this tray on to the NEXT TECHNICIAN.

The group follows.  This technician puts the first slide under a

microscope.  Grant watches on a video monito

r as the tech inserts a long

needle into the prehistoric bug.

                            ELLIE

          Put in a piece of amber, find a mosquito,

          drill it out.  Right?

                            HAMMOND

          Right.  You are witnessing the extraction

          of tissue from the thorax of this humble

          insect.  If this mosquito has ingested any

          foreign red blood cells - say it bit a

          hadrosaur or a stegosaurus or a T-Rex -  we

          will extract those blood cells and obtain

          paleo-DNA, the how-to-build instruction

          book of an extinct creature.

          So you see, Ellie, I'm not creating dino-

          saurs. Fossils left behind the information,

          the map of how to bring them back.  I'm

          helping them escape from the confined of

          time.

                            GRANT

          But even thousands of mosquitos wouldn't

          give you enough tissue to determine a

          complete DNA strand.

           HAMMOND

          Right you are, Dr. Grant!  More like

          hundreds of thousands of mosquitos are

          necessary to provide even a partial

          strand of DNA.  And without a complete

          strand, we don't have a dinosaur.

INT  GENETICS ROOM

A LOUD HUMMING SOUND.  Along the walls are rows of waist-high stainless

steel boxes.  In the room's center are two six-foot-high round towers.

At a single console, a man studies a monitor.

DR. WU, 35, looks up from his study and beams at his guests.  He jumps

up and knocks over his cup of coffee.  ASSISTANTS clean the area as Wu

comes forward and actually hugs Grant, much to Grant's embarrassment.

                            HAMMOND

          Ah, I knew you two would hit it off!  Dr.

          Grant, this is Dr. Wu, my chief geneticist.

                            WU

          Finally, you are here!  I've been working

          without the encouragement of my peers for

          too long.  Welcome, welcome!

He kisses Ellie, who takes 

it in stride.  Gennaro, We already knows.

                            WU

          Mr. Hammond never lets me publish and

          he's interested only in results, not in

          science.

                            HAMMOND

          Don't forget to thank me when you pick up

          your Nobel prize.

Hammond and Wu resume the tour.

                            HAMMOND

          You are standing in the middle of the

          most powerful genetics factory created

          since the expulsion from Eden.

                            WU

          These are Hamachi-Hood automated gene

          sequencers, those are Cray XMP's,

          supercomputers that take DNA information

          and organize it.  In this room, we take

          fragmented or incomplete DNA strands and

          compare them to other incomplete strands.

                            HAMMOND

          It's like finding the missing pieces of a

          jigsaw puzzle.

                            WU

          The computers make sever

al trillion

          calculations to provide us with a

          complete DNA strand - the genetic code of

          an extinct animal.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY

A vast room bathed in infrared light, filled with long tables.  The

first tables have rows and rows of centrifuges, each bearing dozens of

test tubes.  Wu leads the group.

                            GRANT

          Okay, you have your "complete" DNA

          strand.  How do you grow it?

                            WU

          We use unfertilized crocodile ova as our

          breeding medium.

                            HAMMOND

          Our primordial soup.

                            GRANT

          And how do you know what it is you're

          growing?

Wu shrugs.

                            WU

          Well, we have computer techniques to try

          and map out finds on an evolutionary

          basis.  But mostly, we just grow it and

          find out what it is.  If it's something

          we're interested in, and it 

survives, we

          keep it.

Grant and Ellie share a concerned look.

                            GENNARO

          And if you're not interested?

Wu indicates a cabinet of chemicals with skull-and-crossbone warnings.

Timmy regards the poison with excitement.

Lex calls from deeper in the room.

                            LEX

          Come look!

Here, plastic eggs lay on the long tables, their pale outlines obscured

by a grey mist that covers the tables.  The eggs are all gently rocking

as TECHNICIANS roam up and down the aisles.

Hammond walks ahead of the group.  As Wu speaks, Hammond listens and

enjoys it as though he's hearing it for the first time.

                            WU

          This is the incubation room.  We keep the

          temperature at ninetynine degrees and a

          relative humidity of one hundred percent.

                            GRANT AND TIMMY

          Jurassic atmosphere.

Timmy smiles at Grant.  Hammond winks at Timmy.

                            WU

          We

 also run a high oxygen concentration,

          up to thirty-three percent, so if you

          feel faint, please tell me right away.

Lex feigns a faint, Timmy cracks a small smile. They move forward,

waist-deep in the mist.  A strange green light emanates from the

incubators.  Lex is half-consumed by the mist. She mimics the witch.

                            LEX

          I'm ... melting!

Ellie laughs and pulls Lex close.

                            WU

          Reptile eggs contain large amounts of

          yolk but no water at all.  The embryos

          must extract water from the surrounding

          environment.

                            GRANT

          That's why you create the mist.

Wu nods.  Hammond just enjoys the scene as Grant and Ellie watch a

thermal sensor moving from one egg to the next, touching each with a

flexible wand, beeping.  Lex and Timmy let their hands glide over the

sides of the green glowing incubators fully awed by the strange, big

eggs they hold.

         WU

          Children, please do not touch!  The eggs

          are permeable to skin oils.

Grant that very close to an egg.  He sniffs it.

                            GRANT

          What kind of eggs are these?  Are these

          shells plastic?

                            WU

          Yes, they are,  The embryos are

          mechanically inserted and then hatched in

          this room.  But we've managed to

          sufficiently mimic the actual biological

          process - these creatures rupture the

          plastic membrane that they're contained

          in when they're born.  Like real births.

They reach an endless row of incubators, lined up along the wall,

beneath a viewing area like those found in an OB-GYN ward.

                            WU

          Eggs that are determined viable spend

          their last couple days in our specially-

          designed incubators, which help

          accelerate the pre-natal developmental

          stages.  Which is interesting becaus

e

          we're having a problem with the adult

          animals -

Hammond claps a hand over Wu's mouth and laughs.

                            HAMMOND

          There's no problem Dr. Wu can't handle.

          Now who wants to see the real thing?

As they exit the CAMERA PANS the misty aisles, studying the eggs.

EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAY

Blue shadows of clouds sweep across an expansive green hill in front of

the Visitor's Center.

Grant and Hammond make their way down below to the loading area for the

park tour.  A little ahead is Gennaro and Ellie.  Gennaro chatters on

while Ellie energetically explores the area, looking at the plants.

                            GENNARO

          ... so naturally, Hammond's going to

          present everything in the best light.  I

          need to know that this park is safe.

                            ELLIE

          I'll tell you something that troubles me

          from the start.  The carnivores are all

          well-fed and kept separated from their

          natural prey.  That'll keep 'em alive,

          but it won't keep 'em happy.

                            GENNARO

          How do you mean?

                            ELLIE

          The carnivores will want to hunt.  It's

          an instinct.  And that instinct will have

          to be satisfied or suppressed.

FURTHER UP THE HILL, moving slowly, Hammond eyes the pair suspiciously.

                            HAMMOND

          Gennaro is putting negative ideas into

          Ellie's head.  He's a naysayer.  I have

          no affection for that type of thinking.

                            GRANT

          Don't worry.  Ellie makes her own

          judgments.

At the base of the hill Timmy and Lex toss a baseball.

EXT  TOUR START - DAY

The group gathers.  TWO ELECTRIC CARS glide to a stop behind them.

Regis leans out of the first one.

                            REGIS

          Hey!  Great day for a tour!

                            GENNARO

          Looks like rain to me.

                   REGIS

          No!  I told the rain-god to hold it off

          till we got back.

The kids pile in next to Regis and explore the high-tech cars.  Timmy

finds a a pair of very think, strange-looking goggles with dials on top.

Grant, Ellie, and Gennaro climb in the second car.

                            HAMMOND

          Kids, mind Mr. Regis.  He's in charge now.

The cars begin to move and pass Hammond.  He waves.

Gennaro looks back as the cars turn into the brush.  Hammond waves.

                            HAMMOND

          Gennaro, for once in your life, let

          something really move you.

In the cruiser, Gennaro rubs his neck.  He turns to Grant.

                            GENNARO

          Ever get the feeling we're just Hammond's

          damn guinea pigs?

                            GRANT

          I like to wait and see.

Ellie motions ahead, with excitement and apprehension, to a huge gate.

Regis and the kids wave behind to Grant, Ellie and Gennaro.

The gate's doo

rs swing open and the cruisers move forward.  The kids

squeal out a YA-HOO that floats through the air to Grant.  But Grant

wears a cautious face, his skeptical eyes scan the landscape.

A FANFARE of trumpets and then a pre-recorded voice speaks from a

console in each cruiser.  Video screens display a welcome message.

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          Welcome to Jurassic Park.  You are now

          entering the lost world of the

          prehistoric past, a world of mighty

          creatures long gone from the face of the

          earth, which you are privileged to see

          for the first time ...

Regis uses his walkie-talkie to contact Grant's cruiser.

                            REGIS (ON WALKIE)

          That's Richard Kiley.  We spared no

          expense.

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          We'll begin our tour today with the

          herbivores ...

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, FIRST TOUR STOP - DAY

Between massive tree trunks, a spectacular view:  stor

m clouds touch

mountaintops.  Below, the lagoon ripples in pink crescents.

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          ... and the grasses are a species of

          juniper, and samples can be purchased at

          the gift shop.  Now, if everyone will

          take a look to the right ...

All eyes swing that way.  Grant doesn't see a thing.  Nor do the others.

AHEAD, Timmy pulls the binoculars out of the equipment pouch and studies

the location.  Lex grabs the night goggles.  Timmy pulls them from her.

                            REGIS

          Look ...

                            LEX AND TIMMY

          I don't see anything.  Do you see

          anything?  There's nothing there.

                            REGIS

          Something's out there ...

IN THE SECOND CAR, a fly buzzes on Grant's windshield.  Grant hangs out

his window almost sniffing the air for some movement.  Nothing.

SUDDENLY the trees in front of them move!  A deep trumpeting SOUND and

TWO BRACHIOSAURS rumble away fr

om the side of the road.  The ground

SHAKES as they walk, their BELLOWING fills the air.  Led by Grant, the

passengers rise through the open top of their Land Cruisers, to look up

at the dinosaurs far above.

DROOPING FROM ABOVE, leaves and little branches shower on Grant.  Utter

amazement fills Grant's face, then his mouth breaks into a giant smile

then a laugh.  He simply can't believe his eyes. His laugh becomes

raucous and euphoric.

                            GRANT

          Ellie!  Can you imagine the excavation

          team seeing this!

Behind him, Ellie's whole person is awestruck, immobile.  Gennaro

squints, straining to make sense of this unbelievable reality.

IN THE CAR AHEAD, Lex and Timmy stare open-mouthed.  Regis looks at the

animal and then at the group's reverie.  He smiles knowingly: he's been

there, too.  He bends and whispers:

                            REGIS

          Congratulations. You're the first kids in

          the whole wide world ever to see real

          dinosaurs.

The

 kids look up at Regis with wonder in their eyes.

GRANT CAN'T stop laughing.  Still chewing, a brachiosaur cranes down to

peer at this laughing man.  The brachiosaur's huge head stops inches

away from Grant.  Grant, awestruck, stares and them -

CLOSE ON - Grant as his eyes slowly roll back and ... he faints.

The dinosaur casually moves away as Ellie comes to Grant's aid.

                            ELLIE

          Alan?  Alan?

              (sort of delighted)

          He fainted!

Gennaro waves to Regis that all is okay.  Grant slowly revives.  He

looks back at the brachiosaur, groggily, smiling away.  He looks at

Ellie and their eyes linger on each other longer than usual, sharing a

look of serene delight.

Gennaro plops back in his seat and ponders the scene before him.  A

glazed look fills his face.

                            GENNARO

          My God, we're going to make a fortune

          here!

CAMERA PUSHES IN on the majestic, gentle beauty of the Brachiosaurs.

JUNGLE SOUNDS DOMINATE, growing l

ouder and louder.

INT CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Hammond sits at his throne, happily watching the huge video screen which

displays the tour group.  He laughs raucously and calls to Arnold.

                            HAMMOND

          He fainted.  I've waited fifteen years to

          impress that young man.

                            ARNOLD

          Oh Mr. Hammond, I'm sorry to interrupt

          you, but Muldoon needs you by the pit.

                            HAMMOND

          Oh, balls.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, SECOND TOUR STOP - DAY

The cruisers come to a stop.  In the distance, A HERD OF GALLIMIMUS

graze.  They stand on their hind legs to get at high palm trees, then

drop gracefully down on all fours to chew.  BABY GALLIMIMUS scamper

around the adults, eating leaves that drop from the larger animals.

                             PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          ... Gallimimus, known as the ostrich

          dinosaur for the shape of its shoulders,

          have a very strong nesting instinct ...

Grant do

esn't listen.  He is simply intoxicated with the pastoral beauty

of the gentle, grazing dinosaurs.  Suddenly, he looks away with a deep

concern.  Ellie looks at him questioningly.

                            GRANT

          Ellie?  What the hell are we going to do

          with the rest of our lives?

Ellie smiles at him, puzzled.

                            ELLIE

          What to you mean?

                            GRANT

          Can't you see it, Ellie?  We're the ones

          that are extinct now.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, THIRD TOUR STOP - DAY

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          ... lots more to see in the herbivore

          section of our park.  But as we come

          alongside out Jurassic jungle river to the

          left, let's try and catch a glimpse of a

          very unusual and dangerous carnivore.

          Look across the river and above ...

A lovely mossy clearing.  And to the side, bounded just by a thicket of

bushes, a precipitous drop to a tropical river, lus

h and clear.  The

river runs fast but it is narrow.  On the other side is a sharp rise.

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          And there they are!

Standing on that natural pedestal and watching our tour come to a stop

are TWO DILOPHOSAURUS, man-sized dinosaurs with gills that hang around

their necks.  Grant and Ellie chime in with the pre-recorded voice.

                            ALL THREE

          Dilophosaurus!

Timmy and Lex point enthusiastically.  Regis holds them down with a

gentle but restraining arm.

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          Dilophosaurus is one of the earliest

          carnivores.  Scientists once thought

          their jaw muscles were too weak to kill,

          but now, through the miracle of their

          cloning, we know Dilophosaurs spit venom,

          a poison which causes blindness and then

          unconsciousness.

Their distinctive HOOT drifts across the afternoon air.

                            GENNARO

          Poisonous d

inosaurs, there's a liability

          issue without a lot of precedent.

CLOSEUP of the nearly motionless Dilophosaurus.  One yawns wide.

                            GRANT

              (assessing)

          It's like a Gila monster of a cobra.  It's

          a poison ...

                            ELLIE

          Spitter!

The Spitters bound off as Grant watches, transfixed.  A flock of birds

burst from a tree and cross the sky.  Trees filter the light.

                            ELLIE

          Are we dreaming all this?

EXT  RAPTOR PIT - DAY

A big hole in the ground, covered with a think wire mesh.  Suddenly, a

dark claw pushes against the wire web. A SHOWER OF SPARKS.  A SCREECH

animals GROWL and SNARL.  An animal slams its face into the mesh.  SPARKS

illuminate a set of RAZOR-SHARP TEETH.

Muldoon stands next to the pit, carefully loading an assault rifle.

Hammond comes in a hurry.  Muldoon sees Hammond and puts down the rifle.

He walks to Hammond, talking before he gets there.

             MULDOON

          These raptors are too damn dangerous. One

          of them tunneled out this morning.  He

          ripped a boy's arm off before I could get

          a bullet in him.

                            HAMMOND

          A bullet?  Muldoon - no!  Now what?  I

          have five left?

                            MULDOON

          John, they're mean as scorpions and smart

          as chimps.  Their little fingers make

          them natural cage-breakers.  We should

          terminate the raptor program.  They're

          just too smart.  Too damn smart.

                            HAMMOND

          Oh balls.  I will not terminate the raptors

          just because they're behaving normally.

          They're hunters.  Why can't we contain them

          properly?

Hammond starts to walk away.  Muldoon follows, he's not finished at all.

                            MULDOON

          John, remember back in '88, when we

          started to build the containment devices?

 We ordered cattle prods, tasers, guns

          that blow out electric nets.  They're all

          too slow for these guys. If we're going

          to keep the raptors, I want TOW missiles

          and laser-guided devices.

Hammond laughs warmly.  He pats Muldoon on the back.

                            HAMMOND

          It's just a zoo, Muldoon.  A zoo.  Figure

          out a way to contain them.  And we'll sit

          down and have a nice long discussion about

          raptors - after my guests leave, okay?

Hammond walks away.  Muldoon stares after him, jingling keys in his

hand.  Muldoon lumps over to A WORKER.

                            MULDOON

          Okay!  Get a 'dozer, start digging round

          the pit.  We're gonna bury some fence.

          And wear your rifle when you're working!

INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Hammond enters and crosses to his throne.  Hammond swivels to Arnold who

exhales smoke.  Nedry looks over, keeps typing.

                            HAMMOND

          Wh

ere are they?  Punch 'em up.

                            ARNOLD

          They'll be by the trike's in a moment.

          Trike's sick again.

                            HAMMOND

          How can you say it so matter-of-factly?

          The trike's.  You casually accept it, but

          I never can.  You know what it means when

          you say "by the trikes"?  "By the

          trike's" means that they're out there by

          the species:  triceratops horridus.  It

          astounds me every time what I've done

          here.  What magic, what alchemy.  We

          turned a piece of a rock into a dinosaur.

          I will never be complacent about that.

Arnold smiles and punches a button.  WE HEAR the pre-recorded tour voice

and some chatter of the kids.

EAVESDROPPING on the tour IS INTERRUPTED by a radio transmission to the

control room.  Arnold slides over and shuts off the tour monitoring.

The picture on the video screen is now of a cargo boat at a dock.

                            RADIO

         Hello, John.  This is the Anne B at the

          dock.  I'm looking at the storm patterns

          just south of us.  Requesting permission

          to leave before unloading the last three

          food containers.

Nedry looks up quickly, listening carefully.

                            RADIO

          Don't want to be stuck here if this chop

          gets much worse.

Hammond reacts with quiet dismay.  Nedry quietly gets up.

                            NEDRY

          Coffee anyone?

He's ignored.  Arnold defers to Hammond who leans to the microphone.

                            HAMMOND

          Hello skipper, John Hammond, how are you

          tonight?  I certainly don't want to

          imperil anyone.  But can you give us one

          more container of food?  Then we'll feel

          comfortable is the storm delays your

          return.  Could you help us out here?  Of

          course, if it looks too choppy just go,

          but you'd be doing us a big favor.

           RADIO

          Well ... we'll do our best, sir.  We'll

          get one more container off. How's that?

Hammond thanks him and signs off.  Arnold looks at the darkening clouds.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, FOURTH TOUR STOP - LATE AFTERNOON

The cars twist through dense vegetation with a GRINDING of gears.  The

first car comes to a jerky stop.

There is a huge TRICERATOPS lying on its side, moving very slowly,

breathing laboriously.  HARDING, the tall, balding park vet, kneels on

the ground.  He peers into the animal's mouth with a large flashlight.

Before the second car can stop completely, Grant leaps out, races to the

trike.  Regis tries to restrain the kids but they chase Grant and Ellie.

Grant joins Harding on the ground.  The trike lets out a low MOAN.

She's too sick to move.  Ellie and Lex squat by the animal.

                            LEX

          I feel so sorry for her.  She's so sick.

                            VET

          We don't know what's wrong with Freda.

          Every six we

eks she gets like this.

                            REGIS

          Oh, she'll be up and around in no time.

          After a big night, I feel the same way.

Grant very gently opens the Trike's mouth.

                            GRANT

          Poor girl.  What's the matter?  Ellie,

          look at this.

A dark purple tongue droops limply from her mouth.  Ellie shines the

light on it, illuminating silvery blisters.  Gennaro turns away.

                            ELLIE

          Microvesicles.  Interesting.

Grant scratches one of the blisters with his ball-point pen.  It oozes.

The kids share a grossed-out look.

                            LEX

          Doesn't she have a mommy and a daddy?

                            HARDING

          We make these dinosaurs in the lab,

          sweetheart.  But they do form attachments.

          Freda has a little one that follows her

          around, thinks Freda's his mom.

Grant starts to look around.

                            ELLIE

          What does sh

e eat?  Where does she feed?

                            HARDING

          Animal this size takes in a minimum of

          six hundred pounds of plants a day.  We

          truck in hay and meadow grasses seven

          times a day.  That's all she touches.

Grant studies the nearby grass and bushes.  Timmy quietly follows Grant.

Ellie lifts a huge eyelid on the triceratops.  A runny eye just stares.

Grant comes up triumphantly with a bouquet of weeds clutched in his

hand.  These weeds have little purple berries.  Ellie looks over.

                            ELLIE

          West Indian Lilacs!

                            GRANT

          These'd give anybody a stomachache.

                            HARDING

          I'm telling you, the animals don't eat

          don't eat that stuff.

Regis keeps a babysitter's eye on the kids.  Timmy comes up with a

handful of smooth stones.  He approaches Grant shyly.

                            TIMMY

          Dr. Grant, sir?  How 'bout these?

          There'

s lots of little piles of these?

Grant fingers one distractedly, then suddenly comes to attention.

                            GRANT

          Hey, Ellie take a look at his.  Good

          work, Timmy.

Ellie gets up, brushes herself off, comes over and examines the stone.

                            ELLIE

          Extremely smooth.  Purple stains, could

          be those lilac berries.

She and Grant smile and each other and nod.  Gennaro is curious.

                            HARDING

          I don't get it.

                            GRANT

          Looks like your trike swallows stones to

          help her digest her food.  Walking

          around, she crushes berries against the

          stones.  And even just a little crushed

          berry is eventually enough,

                            ELLIE

          So, she poisons herself periodically.

                            HARDING

          Bet we tested her saliva for any trace of -

                            GRANT

          But with th

e stones, she swallows them

          and probably bypasses any mucosal

          contact.  Straight to the stomach.  I

          would test her excrement.

                            LEX

          Yo, yuk!

A light RAIN begins.  Automatically, with a soft hiss, the glass roofs

of the cruisers slide shit.  Gennaro taps Regis and indicates the cars.

                            GENNARO

          Hey Regis, where are your rain gods?

          It's gonna pour.  Let's finish our tour.

Grant agrees, heads for the cruisers.  He turns and looks for Ellie.

Ellie stands by the Trike.  She gives Grant a meaningful look.

                            ELLIE

          I'm staying.

Grant smiles at her decision.

                            GRANT

          Soil samples?

                            ELLIE

          You read my mind.

              (confidentially)

          I think she's sicker then they're saying.

          Her skin is dry and flaky.  And her gums

          are pale.  I'm going to talk to Dr. Wu.

                    GRANT

          Good idea.  I'll keep my eyes open.

Gennaro climbs in with Grant.  The two cruisers start off and Timmy

turns backward to stare wistfully at Grant.  Regis and Lex wave to the

Trike.  Grant looks back to Ellie who has already begun to work.

ON TRIKE - a mosquito lands on its back.  The trike's tail slaps it dead.

INT  MACHINE ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

With difficulty, Nedry shoves his large body down the crawl space behind

a large rack of electronic equipment.  He stops and uses a suction cup

device to lift a section of the tiled floor.  He gropes among cables and

pulls out a small wireless radio.  He transmits:

                            NEDRY (INTO RADIO)

          Jim, what the hell's with you  ... I know

          a storm's coming, I can't ... it's all so

          tightly planned ... that's not enough ...

          ok, twenty minutes, I'll be there.  Damn!

Nedry returns the radio to its hiding place.  He sucks in his gut to

make the crawl out of  the narrow space.

INT/EXT  CRUISERS, T-REX FEEDING AREA - DUSK

The cruisers stop on the rise of a hill.  They over look a forested area,

sloping down to the edge of the lagoon.

                            TOUR

          The mighty T-Rex arose late in dinosaur

          history.  Dinosaurs ruled the earth for a

          hundred and twenty million years, but

          there were tyrannosaurs for only the last

          fifteen million years of that period ...

Farther south, they see the graceful necks of the brachiosaurs standing

at the water's edge.  Their bodies, mirrored in the moving surface,

break apart with the continuing drops of rain.  Hear lightning rhythmic-

ally pulses the sky.  All is quiet except for the soft drone of cicadas

and the tapping of light rain.

Regis calls Grant on the walkie-talkie.

                            REGIS (TO WALKIE)

          You know, Dr. Grant, Hammond likes to

          come here in the evening and just sit.

                            GRANT (OVER WALKIE)

          Where is the T-

Rex?

                            REGIS (TO WALKIE)

          Good question.

ON GRANT - as he takes that in, nodding to himself. Studies the land.

                            GRANT

          Maybe she's down hunting apatosaurs.

OVER WALKIE - Regis laughs, his voice tinny over the radio.

                            REGIS (OVER WALKIE)

          Would if she could, believe me.  Some-

          times she stands by the lagoon and stares

          at those animals, and wiggles those

          little forearms of hers in frustration.

          But the T-Rex territory is completely

          enclosed with trenches and fences.

          Believe me, she can't go anywhere.

                            GRANT

          Then where is she?

They hear A SOFT BLEATING.  In the center of the field, a small cage

rises into view, lifted on hydraulics from underground.  The cage bars

slide down.  A GOAT remains tethered in the field, BLEATING plaintively.

The tour group stares out their windows, expectantly.

BACK ON CONTRO

L ROOM -

Hammond, pleased, watches the giant screen that displays the tour group.

Muldoon limps into the control room.  Arnold looks over.

                            MULDOON

          Just checking in.  Everything ok?

                            HAMMOND

          Look at them.  Leaning out the windows,

          so eager.  They can't wait to see it.

          They have come for the danger.

                            MULDOON

          That's what I'm afraid of.

Muldoon twirls the keys on his fingers and watches the land cruisers.

BACK ON CRUISERS, T-REX FEEDING AREA -

Grant watches quietly.

The BLEATING becomes louder, more insistent.  The goat tugs frantically

at its tether, racing back and forth, kicking.

                            LEX

          What's going to happen to the goat?  Is

          the T-Rex gonna come eat the goat?

Grant senses something.  He sits straight up.  Looks out intently.

                            GRANT

          He's here.

The goat is tethered in the middle of the fi

eld, thirty yards from the

nearest tree.  Grant scans the tree for the T-Rex.

The goat senses something too.  It struggles and strains, bleating

frantically.  Suddenly the mechanical SOUND of the cage coming up.  Its

bars surround the goat with safety once again.

                            REGIS

          Looks like the Rex will have its snack a

          little later today.

                            RECORDED VOICE

          The sensors don't see the Rex around.

          She usually comes within five minutes of

          hearing dinner. If she doesn't, that

          means she's sleeping - we might have

          access to her at the picnic area.

Lex and Timmy let out a sigh of relief.  The tension is gone.

                            LEX

          I didn't want to see him get eaten.  I

          liked the goat.

BACK IN THE CONTROL ROOM -

Hammond studies the large video monitor.  He watches Grant and Gennaro.

Their voices are heard in the control room.

                            GENNARO (MONITOR

ED)

          What is a carnivore got out?

                            GRANT (MONITORED)

          There'd be no stopping it.  Huge, with no

          natural enemies, and a suppressed hunting

          instinct.

Hammond glares.  Arnold, aware, shuts off the screen.

                            HAMMOND

          Damn those people.  They are so negative.

                            ARNOLD

          It's natural.  They can't fully

          appreciate that we've engineered the

          animals and the park for total safety.

                            HAMMOND

          They comb this island like a bunch of

          accountants.  They don't experience the

          wonder, the awe of it all.

                            ARNOLD

          You can't make people experience wonder.

Hammond gets up and stands before the big windows overlooking the park.

The quartz FLOODLIGHTS outside their area COME ON with a rosy glow and

the dark jungle is opened again to their inspection.

At his console, Nedry looks at Hamm

ond.  Hammond stares out the window.

The RAIN PICKS UP and bounces off the window.  Hammond speaks to Arnold

without turning.

                            HAMMOND

          It's like the Garden of Eden out there.

          This is the most beautiful time of day.

                            ARNOLD

          Better rout the tour back.  They can

          start again sun-up tomorrow morning.

                            HAMMOND

          Yup.  Call the kitchen.  Those kids'll be

          hungry when they get in.

Arnold picks up the phone.  STATIC.  He glances over at Nedry.

                            NEDRY

          Sorry 'bout that.  I've taken all the

          lines to upload some data.

Hammond's annoyed, but contains it.  Arnold looks at Nedry, who smiles.

                            NEDRY

          I'll clear a couple of lines for you at

          the end of the next transmission, sir.

          Here you go now, this will make it all

          better, Mr. Hammond.

Nedry punches in a code.

CLOSE ON 

- Nedry's fat finger punching a last key.

CLOSE ON - amber video display terminal as a countdown begins.

As the screen counts down from ten to zero, Nedry peers at Hammond with

a steely glint in his eyes.

BACK ON SCREEN - three, two, one, the countdown hits zero.

Nedry's data-filled screen blinks off.  Nedry looks up to the rack of

monitors.  Unnoticed by Hammond or Arnold two more monitors go blank.

Then a third one.

BACK  ON CRUISERS, REST AREA - NIGHT

The electric cars turn up into a scenic area high above the rest of the

park.  HUGE QUARTZ LIGHTS REVEAL a dramatic view down to the ocean.

There the supply ship, the ANNE B, unloads its last crates.

RAIN INCREASES.  On the other side of the road are picnic tables, an

unfinished snack bar and rest rooms.  To the side of this rest area is a

view of the interior of the island.  A guard-rail separates visitors

To the other side of the rest area is a concrete moat and in the back of

this is a tall, electrified fence.  Surrounding the electric fence is a

smaller protective fence.

                            PRE-RECORDED VOICE

          ... enjoy a healthy snack.  This is also

          a good time to ...

                            LEX

          Hey, is that bathroom working?

                            REGIS

          Sure.

              (he uses his walkie)

          Rest stop.

The kids take off towards the bathroom, running through the rain.  Grant

gets out of his cruiser, strides to Regis.  He indicates the fence.

                            GRANT

          Is that still the T-Rex paddock?

                            REGIS

          Yes.  But she never comes here.  I don't

          know why not.  Probably too much

          construction.

GENNARO, jacket over his head against the rain, looks down to the ocean.

GENNARO'S POV - THE ANNE B UNLOADS he last cargo crate.

GRANT LOOKS at the concrete moat.  Studies its deep curve.  He looks up

at the tell electrical fence with its 10,000 volt warning.  He sees

conventional power lines on the opposite sid

e of the road.

CAMERA EXAMINES the empty cruisers.  Inside, the pre-recorded voice is

chatting on.  It slows eerily and stops.  Video SCREENS BLINK OUT.

BACK ON CONTROL ROOM -

Nedry yawns loudly.

                            NEDRY

          Yup!  Looks like a never-ending weekend

          for me.  I'm gonna get a Diet Coke.

          Don't touch my console, ok?  Line will

          be clear in five minutes.

Nedry leaves.  Hammond swings around and growls under his breath.

                            HAMMOND

          Slob!

                            ARNOLD

          Well, at least he knows what he's doing.

INT  UPPER FLOOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - NIGHT

Nedry races through the series of security doors.  He ignores the

security x-ray device and just SHOVES each door open with his hand.

BACK ON CRUISERS, REST AREA -

THE QUARTZ LIGHTS GO OUT, leaving the group in shadowy darkness and now

STEADY RAIN.  There's a ripple of surprise from the group.  Regis rounds

them all up and directs them back into the 

cruisers.

                            REGIS

          Everything's just fine.  It's a temporary

          glitch due to the rain.  No doubt,

          they're going to re-rout some circuits

          back at the mainframe.  We'll have the

          power back on in moments.  Let's get back

          in the cruisers, they may start up, and

          I'd like us all to be seated in them.

The cruisers are STILL.  IN THE REAR CRUISER, Gennaro turns to Grant.

                            GENNARO

          I knew we shouldn't have kids here.

A vivid FLASH of LIGHTNING.  IN THE FIRST CAR:  Lex covers her eyes.

Then she looks up at Regis with a frightful face.

                            LEX

          Mr. Regis, are dinosaurs ... nocturnal?

                            REGIS

          No, darling, of course not.

                            LEX

          Mr. Regis?  What's ... nocturnal?

Another LIGHTNING FLASH.  Lex cries.  Regis comforts her.

                            REGIS

          Don't you worry about d

inosaurs.  They're

          all very safe in their paddocks just like

          animals in a big, strong zoo.  They're not

          going anywhere we don't tell them to go.

Timmy looks out the window excitedly.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT

All those eggs on tables.  No moving sensors.  Nedry pulls a portable

incubator away from the dozens lined up against the wall.  Its

electrical cord goes flying.  Furiously, Nedry fills the incubator with

eggs, one after the other.

                            NEDRY

          Okay, little ones!  Here we go!

Nedry grabs the handles of the incubator and runs with it.  The

incubator careens on one wheel as he turns the corner and exits.

BACK ON CONTROL ROOM -

Hammond looks out the large window as the LIGHTS EXTINGUISH.  He twirls.

                            HAMMOND

          What's going on, Arnold?  I want those

          lights on.  I don't want my grandchildren

          scared.

                            ARNOLD

          Jesus, the computer's gone

 down.

                            HAMMOND

          Well, I want the computer up.  This is

          the wrong weekend for glitches.

Arnold still examines his console.  He looks out with worry.

                            ARNOLD

          That's not the worst of it.

                            HAMMOND

          Oh yeah?  Please tell me what's worse

          than the lights going out?

Wu smashes through the door.

                            WU

          All the security doors are open.  Someone

          has been in my laboratory and the eggs

          have been disturbed.

The camera pushes in on Hammond's face.

                            HAMMOND

          Where the hell is Nedry?  Where is he?

          Did anybody check the damn john?

Hammond storms out.

INT  CORRIDOR, VISITOR'S CENTER - CONTINUING ACTION

Hammond enters the hall.  Muldoon, racing from the other direction, yells:

                            MULDOON

          John, the generator's shut down.  Who cut

          the power?

                       HAMMOND

          Arnold's on it.  You go out and bring

          back the tour right away.  I don't need

          any of this!

Muldoon is already running back the way he came.

INT  GARAGE - NIGHT

Several electric land cruisers are stored in this shadowy room.  There

is a glassed-in area where Muldoon's weapons are stored:  assault

rifles, tasers, tear gas canisters.

To the side of the garage s Muldoon's red jeep.  In the passenger side

of the front seat is a rocket launcher.

Nedry storms in, wheeling his incubator.  He stop suddenly and listens.

Approaching FOOTSTEPS.

                            NEDRY

          Oh, shit!

INT  BASEMENT STAIRS, VISITOR'S CENTER -

Muldoon runs down a long corridor, stop with a skid and yanks open the

door to the garage.  He runs out.  His boots RESOUND on the concrete.

BACK ON - NEDRY'S PANICKED FACE as he listens to the footsteps.

Wheezing, with great difficulty, Nedry bends his knees and strains.  With

everything he's got, he lifts the incub

ator waist-height.  And holds it.

BACK ON MULDOON - Muldoon's footsteps ECHO as they come closer and closer

to the garage.  Muldoon whips down the curve in the stairs.  His jacket

catches on an incomplete section of banister. Yanks him to a stop.

CLOSE ON - Muldoon's jacket as it RIPS, stays caught.

BACK ON - NEDRY as he tries to heave higher, can't.  Beads a sweat roll

down his brow.

MULDOON FREES HIS caught jacket and then keep going.

Nedry's face drips with sweat.  The incubator slips out of his sweaty

palms.  Catches it with his knee.  Nedry curses and with one forceful

boost, he lifts the incubator shoulder height.

CLOSE ON - Muldoon's feet on long stairwell. BOOM. BOOM. BOOM.

NERVOUS, NEDRY BREATHES in a labored fashion.  He looks this way and

that.  He closes his eyes and with one superhuman effort, he heaves the

incubator into the back seat of the red jeep.  Nedry exhales.

At that moment, MULDOON ENTERS the vestibule between stairs and garage.

NEDRY EYES the shadowy figure in the vestibule.  

Nedry's frightened face.

MULDOON STOPS and reaches in his belt.  He pulls out his pistol.  He

takes out long, shiny cartridges.  He loads the pistol.

NEDRY LEAPS in the front of the jeep, pushing aside the rocket launcher,

and zooms into the night.

A moment later, Muldoon enters the garage.  He sniffs at the exhaust

that still hangs in the air.  He looks over and is surprised to see his

jeep gone.  He bends and inspects fresh tread marks. He looks up, his

face straining to understand.

EXT  PARK ROAD - NIGHT

Nedry's red jeep flies down the park road.

CLOSE ON - Nedry's wheel as he turns it.

His tires skid sideways, then regain traction.  The jeep bolts up a

smaller access road.  He skids to a stop at the top of the hill.

Nedry jumps out and looks up.  His high beams illuminate a huge electric

fence prominently labeled:  DANGER!  10,000 Volts!

Two safety fences separate Nedry from the electric fence.  He races to

the first one, pulls out a key chain.  He tries one key, then another,

and another.  It f

its.  Nedry unlocks the gate, swings open the door.

Nedry runs to the second gate.  He slips in the mud.  He slides to the

ground, dropping keys in a muddy pool.

CLOSE ON - Nedry's hand frantically fishing for the key chain in the

muddy water.  Got them!   Unlocks the second gate.

He races to the electric fence.  RAIN PELTS him now.  Water beads on his

face.  Lightning flashes on the 10,000 volts warning.

He grabs the gate with his bare hand and swings it open.

Nedry heads back to his jeep, his fat body strobed by its high beams.

He jumps in the jeep and drives through.  Behind him, the open gates

move recklessly in the stormy night.

BACK ON GARAGE

Ellie and Harding pull in, in their own gas-powered jeep.  Muldoon is

waiting for them.  Now there's a rifle slung over his shoulder.  Harding

jumps out of the jeep.

                            MULDOON

          Get out, get out!  I need this jeep.

          There's a problem with the tour.  Ellie,

          Hammond'll fill you in.

Ellie is concerned, the

n decisive.

                            ELLIE

          No!  I'm going with you, Muldoon.

They race out.

EXT  DOCK - NIGHT

Headlights blazing in the darkness, Nedry's jeep skids to a stop by the

dock where the ANNE B is preparing to leave.  The water is very choppy.

Nedry jumps out and pulls his incubator to the ground.  He begins to

drag it through the mud, toward the ship.  CAPTAIN FARRELL comes to meet

him, along with A COUPLE MEN, who hoist the incubator easily and carry

it toward the ship.

                            CAPTAIN FARRELL

          Good.  Glad to see you.  Were you seen?

                            NEDRY

          Nah.  I'm back in five minutes, they'll

          never know I was gone.

              (yells after the men with the incubator)

          Careful with that thing!  It's worth more

          than the ship.

              (to the Captain)

          When's the copter meeting you?

                            CAPTAIN FARRELL

          It's not.  The storm's coast-to-coast,

   nobody could land on the water.

                            NEDRY

              (totally panicked)

          Shit!  What's the backup?  I don't like

          this.  Maybe we should do it another time,

          I don't like it.  I just don't like -

                            CAPTAIN FARRELL

          Shhh!  I wired Baker, he'll have a man at

          the dock in Puntaremas.  We should be

          able to make that in time.

                            NEDRY

              (somewhat relieved)

          Ten hours?

                            CAPTAIN FARRELL

          Yeah, now relax.  I got a lot riding on

          this too, you know.  No one's going to

          mess up now.  Baker's not going to mess

          up.  His people won't let him.

                            NEDRY

          Ok.  Ok.  Here.

Nedry pulls an aerosol can out of the baggy crotch of his pants.

                            NEDRY

          Look, this is insulating spray.

CLOSE ON - Nedry sprays a big mound of white foam into his

 hand,

                            NEDRY

          In about eight hours, spray down all the

          eggs with this stuff.  It'll keep 'em

          warm but not too warm.  I hope Baker has

          it together with the dock.

BACK ON CRUISERS, REST AREA -

Rain drums down on the cruiser.  Timmy stares out at the dark.  Lex

stares nervously out the side window.  Timmy picks up the night goggles

and snaps them on.

                            TIMMY

          Hey, these thing work great.  I can see

          in the dark and I can see far.

He swivels away from the T-Rex paddock and looks out toward the ocean.

He reaches up and adjusts the knob.

                            TIMMY

          Hey!  I wonder if that boat's still

          there?  It is. I think they're getting

          ready to go.

TIM'S POV - the fluorescent green image of men untying casting lines on

the boat.

Another LIGHTNING FLASH and Lex SCREAMS and covers her face.  She cries.

                            REGIS

          Timmy, can you

 give her the goggles?

Lex clamps her hands over her eyes.  Timmy gently nudges her.

                            TIMMY

          Want to look at the boat, Lex?

Timmy hands her the night goggles. Lex dries her eyes and takes a peek

with the goggles toward the ocean.

                            LEX

          Hey, that fat guy's down there. Is he

          gonna come get us and take us to Grandpa?

LEX'S POV - the picture streaks but clearly reveals Nedry shouting at

the Captain.  Men heave the incubator onto the ship.

                            LEX

          They have one of those things from the

          room with all the eggs - you know, where

          they help the baby eggs grow up.

                            TIMMY

          You mean an incubator?

                            GRANT (ON WALKIE)

          What's the commotion?

                            REGIS

          Let me see.  Give them to men, sweetheart.

                            TIMMY (TO WALKIE)

          Uh, Dr. Grant?

REGIS GRABS th

e walkie talkie and tries to silence Timmy.  He knows he

gets there too late and reluctantly lets Timmy have it back.

                            TIMMY

          We saw that computer guy helping 'em load

          an incubator onto the ship.

                            LEX (TO WALKIE)

          Yeah, he's stealing them, Dr. Grant!

          He's stealing my Grandpa's eggs!

                            GRANT (ON WALKIE)

          Nedry?  With an incubator?  Regis??

                            REGIS (TO WALKIE)

              (finally acknowledges)

          That's what they saw.

ON GRANT - He looks sharply at Gennaro.

                            GRANT (TO WALKIE)

          We gotta tell Hammond and Arnold right

          away.  How far is it to the mainland?

ON TIMMY - He looks at Regis.

                            REGIS (TO WALKIE)

          Uh, it's a hundred miles to Puntaremas.

          About a sixteen hour voyage in this

          weather.

ON GRANT - He fiddles with the radio in his cruiser.  No r

esponse still.

                            GRANT

          I wouldn't like to see dinosaurs running

          around Costa Rica.

                            GENNARO

          When's the damn power coming on?

INT/EXT MULDOON'S JEEP, OTHER BACK ROADS

Muldoon and Ellie drive into the storm.  Suddenly, he slams on his

brakes.  In front of him, a tree has fallen, completely blocking the

road.  Muldoon curses, swerves around, and skids to a stop.

As Muldoon gets out and assesses the situation, Ellie lodges herself

between the tree and the jeep.  She pushes the tree with her strong legs

and moves it a good five feet. Quickly, Muldoon and Ellie drag the tree.

As they struggle.

                            MULDOON

          Strong legs.

                            ELLIE

          Lot of track in college.

BACK ON CRUISERS, REST AREA -

IN THE FIRST CAR, Regis drums his fingers on the dashboard.  Timmy wears

his goggles and stares into the rain.  Lex shifts her body around,

trying to get comfortable to rest.

                           LEX

          I'm hungry.  When can we get going?

                            REGIS

          When the electricity comes back on,

          honey.  These cars run on electric cables

          buried in the road.

IN THE SECOND CAR, Grant tries the radio to no avail.  Gennaro smokes.

Grant looks forward toward the first cruiser.  He can barely make out

the car in the dark and rain.  Occasionally, LIGHTNING reveals all.

TIMMY PULLS GUM out of his pocket.  Feels a tiny shake, looks around.

He puts it in his mouth, chewing quietly.  SUDDENLY, the whole car

VIBRATES.  Regis' sunglasses jump off the dashboard and fall to the

floor.  The kids look at him.

                            REGIS

          Must be turning on the electricity.

Lex sits up, looks around groggily.

                            LEX

          Feels like a vibration.

INT  T-REX PADDOCK - NIGHT

The T-Rex's huge hind feet crash down, one large foot following after

the other in long, powerful strides.

BACK ON CRUISE

RS, REST AREA - FIRST CRUISER

There is a thud, and then a THUD, and then a THUD.   Tim and Lex share a

frightened look.  Now the thud grows LOUDER.  There is a CRASHING SOUND,

the whole cruiser SHAKES.  Then silence.  Then another SHAKE.

CAMERA PUSHES IN TILL CLOSE - Timmy stares out with his night goggles.

TIM'S NIGHTSCOPE POV IN CLOSE - T-Rex paws rest on the electric fence.

Tim takes off his goggles, stares, transfixed.  Regis picks them up.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - of muscular forepaws with pebbled, grainy skin and

thick, curved nails comfortably gripping a thick wire strand.

The T-Rex moves his body forward of the brush, pushes against the fence.

IN THE SECOND CRUISER -

Grant and Gennaro stare out, unseeing in the rain and darkness.

CLOSE ON LEX -

Tears roll down her cheek.  She cries silently with an unknown fear.

Regis pulls the goggles from his eyes, starts to gag, checks it.

                            REGIS

          Jesus Christ.

                            LEX

          Bad language.

                       REGIS

          Jesus Christ.  The fence isn't

          electrified.

                            LEX

          Is that bad?

Regis turns, looks out the side window, away from the T-Rex.

Regis is shaking uncontrollably.  Suddenly he throws open his door and

bolts off into the rain, leaving the door open.  No move from the Rex.

Regis races by the second cruiser.  Grant stares out at him.

                            TIM

          Mr. Regis!  Mr. Regis, where are you

          going?

                            LEX

          He just left us.  He just left us all

          alone.  Timmy, Timmy how could he do

          that?  We're all alone!  We're all alone!

FLASH OF LIGHTNING.  FLASH.  The Rex butts his head.

TIM'S POV - The fence bangs down on top of his cruiser.

Timmy and Lex recoil from the scrape  of the wire mesh against the car.

IN THE SECOND CRUISER -

GRANT AND GENNARO'S POV - through the almost obscuring rain they see the

fallen fence.  An unseen weight pulls on it fur

ther, causing its

electric wire to pop like over-tuned guitar strings.

TIMMY REACHES -

out into the rain for the open door handle.

Another LIGHTNING FLASH and the creature is revealed standing between

the two cruisers, atop the crushed fence.  His head turns back and

forth, he's deciding on his prey.  Grant and Gennaro or Tim and Lex?

Timmy slams the door shut.  He looks directly at the Rex, just a few

feet away.  The Rex turns to him, stares back.

Lex SCREAMS and Timmy claps a hand over her mouth.

There is a whisper over Tim's walkie-talkie.

                            GRANT (ON WALKIE)

          Timmy, be quiet. Don't move.

BACK ON GRANT -

He snaps off the walkie-talkie.

HIS POV - The rain runs in rivulets down the pebbled skin of the

muscular hind legs.  The animal's head is out-of-view, above the

rooftops of the cars.  The Rex lifts its huge hind leg.

                            GENNARO

          Holy shit!  Any suggestions what we do

          now?

                            GRANT

  Can't think of a thing.

The T-Rex slowly circles Grant's cruiser.

BACK ON TIM -

He watches the beast move.

BACK ON GRANT AND GENNARO -

As they twist and turn, trying to find a circling Rex in dark and rain.

The Rex pauses right next to Gennaro's window.  He lowers his head,

looking for movement inside.

CLOSE ON - the beady, expressionless reptilian eye moving in the socket.

Grant whispers, hardly moving his lips.

                            GRANT

          Don't move.

Gennaro's leg trembles uncontrollably.

IN THE FIRST CRUISER -

Very frightened, Lex discovers a flashlight.  She flicks it on and off,

distracting herself.  The beam shows her eyes full of a quiet panic.

                            LEX

          It's too, too dark out there.

Tim waves his hands in caution.

BACK ON GRANT, GENNARO, AND THE REX -

The Rex bends down, bumps the windshield with his nose.  Just stays

there, breathing heavily.  In the distance, the flashlight goes on

again.  The Rex raises his head suddenly.  Grant g

rabs his walkie.

                            GRANT (TO THE WALKIE)

          Shut that flashlight, Tim!

As the Rex heads off, a casual swipe of his tail SMASHES the side of the

cruiser, throwing Grant and Gennaro across the inside of the car.

ON TIM -

He lunges for the flashlight.  Lex dodges him, keeps it lit.

                            LEX

          No, it's mine.  Please, I need it.

Tim looks up through the sun roof.  The massive head of the

Tyrannosaurus Rex appears.  Tim watches, transfixed.  Lex looks up.

Irrational with terror, she aims her flashlight like a gun.  Blasts him.

Her flashlight beam cuts through the dark and rain - she sees the beast

plainly for the first time and SCREAMS!

The POOL OF LIGHT bathes the Rex's face.  He smashes his head down onto

the Plexiglass bubble.  It crunches, and falls into the car, crushing

the children.  Tim uses his feet to push it to the side.

Above, the Rex displays is gaping maw, drooling toward the opening.

GRANT -

watches the Rex raise his mighty h

ead again, above the kids' cruiser.

TIMMY AND LEX -

have a half-instant of relief.  Then SLAM.  The Rex butts his head

against the cruiser.  The Rex comes back down, tries to discover his

prey inside the cruiser.  Pushes his head close to the glass, looking.

The dinosaur stands in front of the cruiser, his whole chest heaving,

his forelimbs pawing the air.

Timmy whispers to Lex.

                            TIMMY

          Are you ok?  Be quiet and don't move.

Lex barely nods and grabs Timmy's hand.

The Tyrannosaur places his head next to the car.  He begins to shove the

cruiser with his head.  The cruiser ROCKS.  The back window bursts,

shards go flying.

Inside, the kids are THROWN back and forth, SHOVED against each other,

and finally FLUNG against the top of the car as the cruiser FLIPS.

The whole world TILTS CRAZILY - trunks of palm trees slide by, the

ground above, the blazing eye of the rex, the tops of palm trees.

The cruiser SLAMS DOWN on its side, the windows splat in the mud.  Lex

falls he

lplessly against the side window and lies motionless.  Timmy

falls beside her, banging his head.  He reaches for Lex.

                            TIMMY

              (softly)

          Lex?  Lex?

SILENCE.  No movement from Lex.

THE ANIMAL toys with the cruiser.  Like a dog with its bone, the

dinosaur pushes the cruiser along with his head.  He pushes it past the

picnic tables toward the ripped fence and the embankment.  Each shove

sends the children flying again.

The cruiser is pushes closer and closer to the unprotected embankment.

The cruiser slams to a stop completely upside-down.  The T-Rex steps

right on the cruiser, crushing the roof against the ground.

INSIDE - the children crawl for their lives as the car crushes further

down from above and a tidal wave of mud oozes in from the sides.

THE REX - gnaws at the car, grabs a tire with his teeth,  It ruptures

with a pitiful pop.  The Rex grabs at the axle with his teeth, begins to

drag the car back.  THe kids, half-outside, are pulled with the car.

GRANT DANCES -

with a flare!  The Rex is distracted.

CLOSE ON - the Rex as he ROARS.  The flare gleams in his eyes.

The Rex starts toward Grant.  He tosses the flare over the half-standing

part of the fence.  The Rex lunges after the flare.

GENNARO has reached his limit.  Terrorized, he leaps out and SCREAMS:

                            GENNARO

          Extinct animals should stay extinct!

He bolts.  The Rex sees him and starts after him, THUNDERING by Grant,

who stays frozen in place.

Gennaro sprints for his life.  He's not even a distant match for the T-

Rex jogging behind him.

Gennaro dives into the LADIES ROOM.

INSIDE - he slams the door and shoves the trashcan against the door.

POUNDING FOOTSTEPS APPROACH!  Gennaro backs up into one of the stalls.

LOUDER POUNDING, THE WALLS BEGIN TO VIBRATE!  Gennaro assumes a 'tuck'

position.

ON THE INTERIOR DOOR - The Rex smashes right through the steel-clad

door.  Pieces go flying.

Gennaro hides amidst the wreckage as the Rex sniffs around.

GRANT RUNS BA

CK -

to check on the kids.  He reaches a hand underneath the flipped car,

sitting in the mud.  Lex's soft voice can be heard.

                            LEX (OFF)

          Dr. Grant!

Grant fishes under, finds Lex's hand, drags her out.  He quickly checks

her for broken bones.

                            GRANT

          Lex, are you okay?

                            LEX

          Timmy's unconscious, he won't move.

Lex SCREAMS.  Grant turns to see the Rex return.  He squeezes Lex tight.

The animal goes right past them, back to his toy - Tim's land cruiser!

The Rex BELLOWS a huge cry.  Timmy awakens and sees the Rex above him.

He SCREAMS.

Lex, squeezed in Grant's arms, sees her imperiled brother.

                            LEX

          Timmy!

The Tyrannosaur looks up, GROWLS across the upside-down cruiser, opens

its huge jaws menacingly, all the time staring at Grant and Lex.

INSIDE THE CAR - Timmy tries to unwedge himself.  A thin trickle of

blood runs down his forehead.  He's jammed between the

 crushed roof and

the bent bench seat.  He can't free himself.

The Rex begins to SHOVE the cruiser toward Grant and Lex.  They back up

but they have very few feet left - they're almost at the embankment.

But if they don't move, they'll by crushed by the oncoming car.

Grant slings Lex onto his back.  She grabs her hands around his neck and

digs her feet into his sides.  Grant begins to climb over the downed

fence and into the embankment - it's a huge drop!

Grant grabs a broken cable and lowers himself and Lex over the side of

the embankment.

Just in time as the Rex SHOVES the cruiser further.  Now, the cruiser

TEETERS right on the edge, turning again on its side.  Tim hangs halfway

out of the car, unable to get out further.

Grant, with Lex on his back, slides down the cable, rappelling down the

embankment.  ABOVE, the car looms over them, rocking on the edge.  Lex

looks up and grabs Grant so tightly, she chokes him, unknowingly.

Grant, eyes bulging, sees the danger from above.  He pushes off the wall

and

 swings them toward the next hanging cable.  He reaches out and -

- GRABS THE NEXT CABLE just as -

- the T-Rex BELLOWS and lowers her head, and gives a final shove.  Timmy

and the cruiser SAIL INTO SPACE.  Timmy SCREAMS!

Grant and Lex swing out of the way as the cruiser sails past them.  Lex

SCREAMS, squeezing Grant's neck even tighter!   They watch helplessly as

the cruiser BOUNCES off the wall and CRASH-LANDS into the top of a tree

at the base of the wall.

Grant and Lex stare down at the wreck in the tree.  Timmy can't be seen.

Grant, choking from Lex's grip, grabs her fingers.

                            GRANT

          Let ... go ... please.

The Rex ROARS above.  They look up.

THE REX paws the air, GRUNTS in frustration and STALKS off, LIGHTNING

FLASHES.

EXT  NEDRY'S JEEP, BACK ROADS -

Nedry speeds along the rain-slick road, fish-tailing as he goes.

CLOSE ON - Nedry at the wheel.

NEDRY'S POV - the dark, wet road running alongside a ten-foot chain-link

fence.  Suddenly, a beast-like visage blur

s across the road.

Nedry swerves.  The jeep skids.  Nedry tries to over-steer, can't bring

the careening jeep under control.

The jeep crashes though the fence, bounces down a cement culvert, and

dives into a raging gully.

Nedry curses.  He spins the wheel.  The tires spin and spray.  The

jeep's hopelessly stuck in the gully.  From Nedry's seat in the jeep, he

cranes his head around, examining his situation.

NEDRY'S POV - On the opposite side of the gully, there is an equipment

graveyard.  By the titled jeep headlights, steely monsters all around

can be seen - discarded earth movers, graders, and tractors.

Nedry gets out of the jeep, grabs the winch from the jeep's back end.

and wades over to an abandoned tractor.

                            NEDRY

          Shit. I'm going to have to change clothes.

He loops the winch around the tractor's base.  Suddenly, he stops and

looks around as he hears a gentle HOOTING.  He squints, looking at the

strange steel graveyard lit by the bright beams of the jeep headli

ghts.

HOOT!  HOOT!  A distinctive HOOTING.  Nedry looks up in fear.  SILENCE.

Nedry starts moving toward his jeep.  Again, the HOOT!  Nedry stops,

looks right, looks left.  A RUSTLE in the trees.  Nedry's head cocks.

Looking through trees, lit by the strong beams, Nedry sees a SPITTER in

the eerie mist.  Now it's gone.  Now it's back.  It circles Nedry

warily, hunting him.  Nedry stares.

                            NEDRY

          I hope this is one of them herbivores.

Nedry scrambles the other way, full-tilt.  Hop, hop, and the Spitter

drops in front of Nedry from the other side.  HOOT!

Nedry jumps back, lands on his butt.  The Spitter zips in from the side

- HOOT!

Nedry doubles back, racing through the abandoned equipment, ducking and

rolling under a cement mixer, spinning past a tree.  He splashes down

the embankment, trying to get to his jeep.  He uses the winch line to

steady himself again the raging current.  He finally reaches the jeep,

swings open the door - and, surging out of the water like a

 demonic

apparition, is the SPITTER!  Nedry backs away, directly into the glare

of the headlights!

CLOSE ON - the Spitter.  It's plume opens, bright orange gills swell out

like an umbrella around its neck.  Something squirts beneath its jaws.

A big glob SMACKS Nedry on the arm.  He brushes it off.

                            NEDRY

          Gross.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - the Spitter's head.  The jaws puff, the hood flares

out, the neck snaps forward.  And - it spits.

This glob misses Nedry, splashes off the steaming headlight.

VERY EXTREME CLOSEUP - The Spitter's swollen poison sacs are inflated.

They fire!

This glob hits Nedry in the eyes.  He SCREAMS.

                            NEDRY

          I'm blind, I'm blind.

He falls against the jeep, rubbing his eyes.  The Spitter calmly hops to

the embankment and watches the blinded Nedry weave drunkenly in the

water.  Nedry grabs onto the jeep and pulls himself along toward the

driver's door.  The Spitter stalks, watching him.

Nedry pulls open the jeep door, 

thrusts his head in, slams it against

the door frame.  Now Nedry heaves his whole body into the jeep.  The

Spitter's long ostrich-like legs stretch and bend in an easy gait as it

closes it on Nedry.

Nedry sits behind the wheel, unseeing as the Spitter watches patiently

turns his blind eyes that way.

A long beat.  The Spitter leaps forward, the CAMERA PULLS BACK WIDER AND

WIDER.  Nedry lets out an ear-splitting SCREAM and the car horn BLARES.

INT  TIMMY'S CRUISER

Timmy lies against a spidered side window, his head pressed against the

door handle.  He pushes himself up on one elbow, opens his eyes, and

tries to focus.  Rain has nearly stopped but a light drizzle hits him

Timmy tries to straighten up, but he's too dizzy.  He stops and hears A

CREAKING and feels the whole car gently swaying back and forth.  With a

further effort, he raises his body so that he's standing with his feet

on the window frame and looks out the broken roof.

TIM'S POV - Dense foliage, moving in the wind, hard to see through.  An

o

pen space and - THE GROUND, FORTY FEET AWAY!

INT/EXT  CRUISER - CONTINUING ACTION

Tim's cruiser is lying on its side, stuck in the higher branches of a

tree on the hillside.

                            TIMMY

          Oh shit!

Timmy pulls his body up carefully, trying to get a better view.  He

grabs the steering wheel for support and it spins free in his hand.

CRACK!  The cruiser slips a few inches down the tree.  Timmy grabs the

window frame and freezes.  The car sways in the wind.

CRACK!  The car slips a quick and rocky two feet.

                            TIMMY

          Oh shit, oh shit, oh shit, oh shit!

Timmy hears something.  He raises his head very carefully.  Climbing up

the tree, pulling himself on a nearby branch, is Dr. Grant.

                            GRANT

          Timmy.  Are you ok?

                            TIMMY

          Thank God you're here.  Where's Lex?

                            GRANT

          Below.  She's fine.  Let's get you down.

Timmy nods.

Grant peers throug

h the broken roof of the cruiser, analyzing Timmy's

predicament.  He cranes his head back to examine how the cruiser is

supported in the tree.  Grant turns back to Timmy.

                            GRANT

          Try the door you're leaning against.

          Nice and slow.

Timmy places his weight on the two sides of the door frame and reaches

between his legs, trying to open the door handle.  Stuck.  CRACK!  The

cruiser drops another foot.

Grant scrambles down a couple branches until he is even with the cruiser

again.  He motions for Timmy to hold still.

Grant reaches across to the other car door and tries the outer door

handle.  This one opens and very slowly, he pushes open the door.  Grant

gingerly holds it half-open in mid-air.

                            GRANT

          Crawl this way.  Slowly.

Carefully testing his weight with each step, Timmy lowers his body down.

He pushes his legs out the door.  They kick in the air and slowly come

to rest on a lower branch.  He lets himself down.  Now he si

ts on a

branch, a few feet below the cruiser.

CRACK!  The cruiser drops.  Grant still hangs onto the door but now his

footing on the branch is gone.  His legs hang in space.  The cruiser

hangs precariously above Timmy.  They're all twenty feet in the air.

                            GRANT

          We're going to have to make a jump for

          it, Timmy.  Okay?

Timmy agrees.

                            GRANT

          One, two, three, jump.

Timmy lets go and DROPS.  Grant follows.  So does the cruiser.  It's

hurtling right at them.

Timmy BANGS against the wet tree-trunk and slides down.  Branches WHIP

against his face, his hands SCRAPE against the trunk.  Grant BOUNCES

them.  They scramble down as quick as they can.

Timmy pulls his hands along the sap-sticky surface of the tree.  CRACK!

Grant is stopped for a terrible instant - doubled over a branch, he

flips himself over, dropping further.  The cruiser jolts along, just a

half-step behind them.

Timmy dives the last six feet and HITS the wet earth 

with a THUD!  Grant

CRASHES next to him.  Before they can roll out of the way, the cruiser

keeps coming.  Grant and Timmy look up at it.

GRANT'S POV - The cruiser dropping, dropping toward them.  And finally

stops, just inches away, its dented grill grinning at them, its cracked

headlight glaring.

Oil drips down on Grant.  He grabs Timmy, who grabs the night goggles.

The two roll away.  That second the cruiser SMASHES to the ground.

Grant brushes himself off painfully, extends a hand to Timmy.  Timmy

slowly reaches up and pulls himself standing.

                            TIMMY

          Thanks, Dr. Grant.

                            GRANT

          You owe me one.

Grant turns around in a slow, fluid circle, checking out the forest.

                            GRANT

          Where'd Lex go?

They hear a faint WHIMPERING.

                            TIMMY

          There's Lex.

He runs.  Grant follows.

INT  DRAINPIPE -

Lex is curled up inside the drainpipe.  Her baseball glove is in her

mouth and

 she is rocking back and forth, rhythmically banging her head

against the back of the pipe.  She WHIMPERS.

ON THE HILLSIDE -

Grant and Timmy arrive at the drainpipe and stare in at Lex.

                            GRANT

          Come on out now, Lex.

Lex continues to band her head.  Timmy tries again.

                            TIMMY

          It's your turn to wear the goggles, Lex.

She shakes her head.  He holds up her baseball but she doesn't look.

                            TIMMY

          I found your baseball.

                            LEX

          You did?

But she doesn't move.  Grant speaks encouragingly.

                            GRANT

          Cone on, Lex, it must be cold in there.

          And tight.  Why don't you come out?

                            LEX

          I'm afraid of the "animals".

                            TIMMY

          The "animals" are gone.

                            LEX

          Where did it go?

                            TIMMY

          I don't kno

w but it's not here now.

                            LEX

          Are there any grownups out there?

                            GRANT

          I'm a grownup, Lex.  Come on out.  Gimmie

          you hand, come on, here you go.

                            LEX

          I'm hungry.

                            GRANT

          Me, too.  We've got to get ourselves back

          to civilization.

EXT  ROADSIDE

Regis slowly crawls out from between a couple large boulders.  He looks

around carefully.  He peels mud off his face and rubs his neck.

He touches his cheek.

CLOSE ON Regis' swollen cheek.  He rubs it with his finger.  Suddenly,

he swats at his own mouth.  He reaches in and pulls out a leech fat with

blood.  He hurls it to the ground, spitting.  He grabs another off his

arm and rips if off, leaving a bloody streak.  He digs in his pants and

pulls out another.  He SCREAMS.

As soon as he has done so, he knows he's made a mistake.  He looks

around frantically.  Sees the Rex trot down the road toward 

him.

                            REGIS

          Noooooo!

BACK ON HILLSIDE -

Grant and the kids crest the hill.  Grant puts on the night goggles and

adjusts the dial and looks toward Regis.  The kids can't see that far.

                            TIMMY

          What's going on?

Grant's green POV - Regis and the Rex bounding after him.  Regis hugs a

tree, unmoving.

Grant whispers to the kids.

                            GRANT

          It's Regis and the Rex is after him.  But

          it's okay.  Regis knows the Rex can't see

          him.  Evidently, he can only see move-

          ment.  Regis'll be ok if he stays still.

AFTER A LONG MOMENT, the tyrannosaur walks away, disappears into the

shadows.  Regis waits another long moment and releases his tree.

GRANT'S POV - The tyrannosaur leaps out of the shadows and knocks Regis

to the ground.  Regis jumps up and backs off.  The animal knocks him

right back down.  Regis jumps up again and screams at the beast.

                            REGIS

      You don't want to hurt Mr. Regis.  Go

          away.  Ed's your friend.  Back off!

THE REX watches him dance around.  It goes toward him.  This time its

jaws are open.  Regis SCREAMS and in the middle, the scream cuts off.

Grant lets the goggles fall off his face.  They hit the ground with a

METALLIC CLINK.  The Rex turns toward Grant and the kids.

                            GRANT

          Let's go!

Grant grabs both the kids' hands and they begin to run.

BACK ON  TOUR REST AREA -

Drops of water splat on a big fern.  Light swims in the little puddle.

In the sky above, clouds hurry by, intermittently revealing a half-

obscured moon.

The torn fence lies in a crumpled, twisted mess.  The wheel of a Land

Cruiser spins.  A little lizard runs in place on it.

The SOUND of the jeep's engine.  It's Muldoon and Ellie.

THEIR POV - a single cruiser lies on its side in the middle of the road.

                            ELLIE

          Oh, My God!  Where's the other one?

Before the cruiser stops, she j

umps out.   Muldoon shouts a whisper.

                            MULDOON

          Ellie!

Ellie turns in the headlight beams.  Muldoon tosses her a flashlight.

                            MULDOON

          Wait up.

Muldoon skids to a stop, leaps out of the car.  He catches up to Ellie.

They share a frightened, apprehensive look.  Muldoon gets on his knees

and and touches a muddies area.

                            MULDOON

          T-Rex tracks.

Ellie looks out into the forest.

                            ELLIE

          Then they must be out there.  They must

          be out there.  I know it.

                            MULDOON

          Perhaps.

                            ELLIE

          No!  They're out there.

                            MULDOON

          I've seen a lot of animal attacks in the

          bush.  It's not as gory and horrifying to

          see as you'd think.  No pools of blood or

          exposed bones.  There is usually little or

          no evidence left behind.  And if

 victims

          are small, a predator can kill by just

          shaking the little thing to death, eating

          it, and leave not so much as a button.

A definite RUSTLING in the brush.

Ellie jumps and SCREAMS.  Muldoon puts his hand over her mouth and

pushes her down.  They both squat by the cruiser.  SILENCE.  Ellie

swallows.  Muldoon slowly gets up.  Ellie follows.

Their flashlights swing back and forth in the night.  Twigs crack under

their feet.

Ellie hears the RUSTLE at the edge of the forest.  She shines her light

into the brush.  She catches her breath.  Her hand shakes.

Ellie flashes her beam right, left, up, down.  Jumps.  Something is

coming at her, rolling at her.  She gasps, steps back.  It's too late.

It's Gennaro.  His limp body stops at her feet.  She covers her mouth.

Muldoon runs to her.

Gennaro is face-down.  Muldoon takes his pulse.

                            MULDOON

          Thank God.  (beat)  We have to carry him.

          First I have to ...

He stands and removes his 

jacket.

CLOSE ON - Muldoon tears the jacket into long strips.

He wraps Gennaro's wounds.

                            MULDOON

          He's losing a lot of blood.  Help me.

Muldoon and Ellie carry Gennaro to the jeep.  They lay him on the back

seat.  Muldoon jumps in back with him.  He keeps wrapping the wounds.

Ellie starts the engine, looks back at him.

                            ELLIE

          Looks like you've been through this

          before.

Muldoon looks up.

                            MULDOON

          I told you I've seen big game attacks in

          Africa.

She starts the engine.

                            ELLIE

          Right.

Ellie skids out of there.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - NIGHT

The dark room is lit with two outdoor torches.  Light flickering on

their faces, Arnold and Wu stare at the console screen.

                            WU

          Why?

                            ARNOLD

          Because Nedry messed with the code.

          That's why I'm checking it.

              WU

          But that could take weeks.  What would be

          faster?  Try keychecks.

Arnold snaps his fingers, grabs Wu,

                            ARNOLD

          That's true.  Keychecks will give me a

          record of every button Nedry pushed.

With a rapid series of keys, Arnold initiates "keystrokes".  The

computer displays a short series of commands.  Arnold runs his finger

down the screen.

                            ARNOLD

          Jesus, that's all he did all afternoon?

          He was just dicking around, maybe waiting

          to get his nerve up.

Wu points to a line.  It reads:  WHTE-RBT.OBJ

                            WU

          What's that?

                            ARNOLD

          Some sort of object.  Let's see if we can

          trace it.

Arnold types FIND WHTE-RBT.OBJ.  Nothing.  He tries DEFINE WHTE-RBT.OBJ.

Still nothing.  LIST WHTE-RBT.OBJ.  The screen fills with data.  Each

line defines another security system that has been shut off:  SECURITY

PERIM

ETER FENCES OFF/   SECURITY - INTERIOR FENCES OFF/  SECURITY -

LABORATORY DOORS OFF/, etc.

                            WU

          What's it mean?

                            ARNOLD

          It wasn't a bug.  It was a trap door that

          fat bastard left for himself.  When he

          hit WHTE-RBT. OBJ, it initiates a set of

          commands that turned the whole goddamn

          park off.  Hammond was right about him.

                            WU

          If I did that I'd leave a way to turn it

          back on.  In case I had to.  I'm sure

          Nedry did.  You're find it.

Arnold nods grimly.

INT  CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Hammond sits quietly in the deserted cafeteria, calmly spooning ice

cream into his mouth.  This room is lit by dozens of candles.

Muldoon walks in, stares at Hammond in the semi-darkness.

                            MULDOON

          We found Gennaro.  He'd badly injured.

          Harding's tending to him in your

          quarters.  He'll be all right if we can

      radio for help.  Your grandchildren and

          Grant are somewhere in the park.  I

          believe they're alive but I don't know

          where they are.

                            HAMMOND

          I'm sure you'll find them.

                            MULDOON

          I certainly hope so.

                            HAMMOND

          I'm sure we will.  After all, I keep

          telling everyone, this park is made for

          children.

                            MULDOON

          Just so you understand that they're

          missing, sir.

                            HAMMOND

          Missing?  Of course I know they're

          missing.  You just said that.  Look, Bob,

          let's not get carried away.  We've had a

          little breakdown from the storm or

          whatever, and as a result we've had a

          regrettable, unfortunate accident.  And

          that's all that happened.  We're dealing

          with it.  Arnold will get the computers

          cleaned up, and

 the radio and phone lines

          open.  You'll find those kids and my good

          friend, Dr. Grant.  I'm sure they'll want

          some of this ice cream.  It's very good.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Dark.  Ellie helps Harding get Gennaro comfortable on Hammond's couch.

Blood from Gennaro's injuries stain the rich leather.  Gennaro babbles.

                            GENNARO

          That Rex didn't even give me his full

          attention.  That's what hurts.  I was

          just an afterthought.  I gave him my full

          attention.

                            HARDING

          He's had a lot of morphine.

                            GENNARO

              (sings)

          Not enough.

                            ELLIE

          I need to find Wu.  I have to run a few

          tests in his lab.

                            HARDING

          He's probably in the control room, get-

          ting in the way while Arnold tries to put

          things together.

As Ellie leaves, Genna

ro is singing a shanty in his morphine stupor.

                            GENNARO

          Yo ho, I'll close this place down ...

EXT  THE ANNE B AT SEA - NIGHT

The ship is tossed around on a stormy sea.

                                                     MATCH CUT TO:

INT  STATEROOM -

The eggs are tossed around in the womb of the incubator.  The swell

settles but the rocking of one egg doesn't stop.  The egg cracks, a

silvery line runs down its side.

EXT  PARK - NIGHT

Somewhere in the dark park, laced by low fog, Grant, Timmy and Lex walk.

                            LEX

          I'm tired.

                            TIMMY

          You're too big to be carried.

                            LEX

          But I'm tired-tired.

                            GRANT

          Okay, Lex.

Grant picks her up.

                            GRANT

          Oof!  You're heavy.

The full moon is blurred by drifting clouds.  Their blunted shadows lead

the three across an open field toward dark woods beyond

.  Grant is lost

is thought, trying to decide where to go.

                            GRANT

          I think we're still in his paddock.

Lex's heavy eyes open.  Her eyes grow big.  She taps Grant's shoulder.

                            GRANT

          What?

                            LEX

          Don't you see?  Don't you see?

                            GRANT

          What?

                            LEX

          The fence.

                            GRANT

              (squinting)

          No.

                            TIMMY

          Oh I do, right there!

Lex lets herself slide off Grant and runs into the woods.  Timmy

follows.  Grant follows, squinting.  Finally, he sees.  A big smile.

The kids look up at a twelve foot high electric fence.  Timmy gulps.

                            LEX

          Timmy's scared of heights.

Timmy spins in fury.

                            TIMMY

          Shut up.

Lex and Timmy stare at each other.  No fighting - now.  They relax.

         GRANT

          Okay with the fence, Timmy?

Timmy eyes it.  Nods hesitantly.  They start to climb.  Lex climbs easily.

                            LEX

              (mumbles quietly)

          'Fraid of heights.

Timmy climbs tentatively.  A dinosaur ROARS in the distance.

CLOSE ON - Timmy's foot loses its grip.

Timmy hangs for a moment, held only by his straining hands.

All three stop.  Wait.  Timmy regains his balance.  Slowly, they proceed

up and over.

On the other side, Grant looks around.  More high trees.  Beyond a field.

                            GRANT

          A herbivore grazing area.  Excellent.

Grant starts to walk toward it.  Timmy stops.  Lets sits on a tree root.

                             TIM

          We gonna walk all night?

Grant looks at his watch.

                            GRANT

          Twelve hours before that ship reaches the

          mainland.

                            TIM

          We need sleep.

True, and Grant's thinking the same thing.  He looks aro

und, surveying

the misty forest.  He looks straight up into the beautiful, tall trees

that ring the wide-open grassy meadow.

                            GRANT

          Up there.

                            TIM

          Climb?  Again?  I can't climb again?

Grant smiles.

                            GRANT

          Sure you can.

Grant checks out and rejects tree after tree.  Near the meadow he finds

it.  A good, basic climbing tree.

EXT  UPPER BRANCHES OF THE TREE

Grant helps Lex get comfortable on his lap.  Timmy tucks himself in

between Grant's outstretched legs.  Grant looks out.  Back to kids.

Timmy and Lex are already snoring.  Lex turns and hugs Grant close to

her.  She murmurs in her sleep.  Grant starts to pat her shoulder when

Timmy, without waking, reaches to her and strokes her hair.

                            TIMMY

              (mumbles)

          It's ok, Lex.  Everything's gonna be okay.

                                                       CUT TO:

CLOSE ON - amoeba-like creatures 

swimming in a pool.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT

Ellie lifts her head away from the powerful microscope.

The dark room is lit by flashlight.  Battery packs power the microscope.

Wu paces the room, regarding his eggs with dismay.  Sitting on their

long tables with no moving wands above them - no thermal sensors.

                            WU

          What is taking Arnold so long?  This room

          is too cold.  My eggs will be damaged.

Ellie swings the lens to Wu.  Not so interested but peers in politely.

                            ELLIE

          No sign of those berries.  Really

          interesting.  There are indications of a

          similar virus in every tissue sample.

          But it's not in the ground.  Could I look

          at some of the discarded embryos?

Wu reluctantly agrees.  He opens a cabinet and brings her samples.

                            WU

          I'm sure you'll find your virus ... or a

          similar one.  All animals carry many

          viruses 

in a dormant condition.  It's

          almost impossible to say with certainty

          which are the same strains.

Ellie begins a test on a sample.  She adds a reagent and marks up a

slide.  As she works:

                            ELLIE

          And yet from what Harding tells me, many

          of you animals have similar symptoms -

          besides the microvesicles, a lack of

          hunger, loss of reproductive urges, sores

          in the mouth and gums.

Wu waves his arms.

                            WU

          What the hell does Harding know?  He's a

          veterinarian, not a pathologist.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Arnold pushes his chair away from his console and claps his hands as

Muldoon walks in.  Muldoon asks hopefully.

                            MULDOON

          What is it?

Arnold points to the screen.

                            ARNOLD

          That's it.

Muldoon comes closer.

                            MULDOON

          That's what?

                            ARNOL

D

          I found the command to restore the

          original code.  It resets the linked

          parameters.

                            MULDOON

          The fences and the power?

                            ARNOLD

          Right.  And it does something else. It

          erases the code lines that refer to it.  It

          destroys all evidence it was ever there.

                            MULDOON

          Nedry could steal the eggs, get back and

          reset the whole show.  No one would ever

          miss him.

                            ARNOLD

          Watch this.

Arnold types in a command.  The screen flickers and changes.  Arnold and

Muldoon look out the window as lights come on through out the park.

                            ARNOLD

          Hot damn!

                            MULDOON

          Are the fences back on?

                            ARNOLD

          You bet they are.  It will take a few

          seconds to get up to full power, because

          we've got fift

y miles of fence out there,

          and the generator has to feed the

          capacitors along the way.  But in a half

          a minute we'll be back in business.

Arnold points to the transparent map of the park.  On it, bright red

lines snake out, moving throughout the park, as electricity surges

through the fences.

                            MULDOON

          Motion sensors?

                            ARNOLD

          Got them too.   It will be a few minutes

          while the computer counts.  Then I'll

          tell you where Grant and the kids are and

          you can go and get them.  But every-

          thing's working.  Half past ten and we've

          got the whole thing back up and running.

Muldoon picks up a phone, shakes his head.

                            MULDOON

          Just hiss.

BACK ON  GRANT AND KIDS IN TREE -

Grant snores.  A mosquito buzzes around him.  He waves him away and

continues to sleep.

In the distance, a tiny BEEPING. Below the towering tree, across the

f

ield, a sensor beeps, it's green light blinks, and the beeping stops.

IN THE HIGH TREE, the branches sway.  Grant and the kids sleep on.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

The glowing, glass map.  Arnold and Muldoon stare at it.

                            MULDOON

          What is taking so damn long?  Where are they?

                            ARNOLD

          There's a lot of extraneous movement out

          there.  Branches blowing, birds, back-

          ground movement.  It may take, ah, okay,

          count's finished.

Muldoon looks at Arnold anxiously.  Arnold looks down.

                            ARNOLD

          Hmmmm.  I don't see them.  Maybe they're

          out of range of a sensor.

                            MULDOON

          Shit.  I don't know where they are.  I

          wish I could go out there   But I haven't

          got anything to use on the Rex.  My

          rocket launcher's in the jeep Nedry

          stole.  And going out with a big gun in

          the dark would be suicide

.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - NIGHT

Brightly lit again.  Ellie performs tests with a centrifuge.  She looks

at Wu, who sits across from her in a high stool, stifling a yawn.

                            ELLIE

          Why don't you get some sleep, Dr. Wu?

          I'm just going to run a couple more tests

          and then I'm going to turn in myself.

Wu doesn't need to be told twice.  He climbs off his stool.

                            WU

          No point in everyone being exhausted.

He starts to leave.  He comes back and speaks consolingly at Ellie.

                            WU

          I'm sure Muldoon will find Dr. Grant as

          soon as there is light.

Ellie appreciates his effort, nods seriously, goes back to work.

                                                      DISSOLVE TO:

EXT  OCEAN - JUST BEFORE DAWN

Beautiful dark ocean.  The sky is a rich blue.  A morning star fades as

the sky lightens.  The Anne B is a small dot on the massive ocean.

INT  STATEROOM, ANNE B 

-

Eggs sit in the incubator.  A hand sprays them with foam.  Leaves.

CAMERA EXAMINES the eggs as the foam disperses.  More cracks.  One egg

jumps with a bolt from within.  It settles.  Jumps again.

                                                      CUT TO:

ESTABLISHING AERIAL - the primordial beauty of Isla Nublar at dawn.

EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - DAWN

Muldoon drives out into the park in Harding's jeep.  THREE WORKERS

travel with him.  Each carries a rifle.

EXT  GRANT'S TREE - DAWN

CAMERA LOOK DOWN on Grant, Lex and Timmy still sleeping in the tree.  A

large shadow falls on their quiet faces.  Lex opens an eye. She SCREAMS.

Grant and Timmy wake up with a start.

THEIR POV - AS THE CAMERA LOOKS THROUGH THEIR LEGS AND TILTS UP right

into the huge face of A DUCK-BILLED HADROSAUR, a gigantic dinosaur with

cow eyes.  Its head moves up through the canopy of the trees.  Then the

head swoops way down below.  And returns to Grant's level and stares at

his shoe.

The hadrosaur tastes Grant's shoe.  The kids

 press tightly into Grant.

                            LEX

          He gonna eat us?

                            GRANT

          I don't think so.  She's a ...

                            GRANT AND TIMMY

          ... herbivore.

The hadrosaur HONKS.  Lex covers her ears.  Grant smiles and motions to

Lex.  He picks a big fruit off the tree and tosses it into the

hadrosaur's mouth.  CHOMP.  He feeds it again.  Lex and Timmy toss a few.

CHOMP!  CHOMP!  HONK!  HONK!

The hadrosaur's big head swoops way down, momentarily gone.

When she returns, all three quickly gather fruits and throw them into

her mouth.  The hadrosaur pulls back with her giant mouthful of fruit.

She pulls further and further back and then her huge head turns and

moves down.

Grant, Lex and Timmy strain to see through the branches.

THEIR POV - The hadrosaur is feeding four scampering, baby hadrosaurs.

Letting the fruit tumble from her mouth into theirs.  Lex YELLS:

                            LEX

          Come here, babies!  Get your b

reakfast!

The babies run to the base of the tree.  The kids toss fruits right down

to them.  Lex and Timmy climb lower to feed them right from their hands.

Grant and the mother hadrosaur stare at each other.  She sniffs his

foot.  He moves closer, straddling a branch.  He lifts up her lip and

examines her gums.

CLOSE ON - a ripped piece of fence stuck in her teeth.

Grant yanks it out.  He lets it drop to the ground.  He take a large

leaf and rubs her teeth with it.

CLOSE ON - her mouth as Grant's hand touches the side of her tongue.  He

sees little tiny bumps.

The hadrosaur lets out a low groan.   Grant is puzzled, rubs harder.

                            GRANT

          Like the trike.  Maybe it's not the stones.

HONK!   She pulls her mouth away.  The baby hadrosaurs turn to the

honking adult.  She is leaving quickly.  They follow quickly behind her.

The small herd leaves, casually trampling trees as they go.

EXT  BACK ROADS, PARK - MORNING

Muldoon and workers drive rapidly in the jeep.  Suddenly,

 Muldoon slams

on the brakes.

MULDOON'S POV - ABOUT TWENTY PROCOMPSOGNATHIDS (COMPYS), small chicken-

sized scavenging dinosaurs, scramble across the road.

                            MULDOON

          Where the hell are they going?

Muldoon watches them cross.  He thinks it over.  Spins the wheel and

follows them off the road.

                            MULDOON

          Let's see what's up.

EXT  BELOW THE TREE, PARK - MORNING

Timmy bravely jumps from a very low branch.  He smiles and looks at

Grant, who's already on the ground.  Grant looks off in the distance.

                            GRANT

          Tim, I think there's a motion sensor

          across the field and down there.

                            TIM

          Where's Lex?

ALONE IN THE BUSHES -  Lex kneels.  She holds a big fruit and calls:

                            LEX

          C'mere boy, c'mere.

She tosses the fruit.

CLOSE ON - the fruit rolling away.

Lex gets up and follows the rolling fruit.  She picks it up.

                 LEX

          It's very, very good.

She tosses it again.

                            LEX

          C'mere boy, c'mere.

Lex's eyes scan the bushes, then stop.  She smiles.

LEX'S POV - hidden in the brush, a baby triceratops' eye peeks at Lex.

Lex pushes the fruit closer.  The BABY TRICERATOPS comes out of the

brush, squeaking as it goes.  It nibbles the fruit.  Lex rolls another.

BACK ON GRANT AND TIM - They look around.  Timmy stops, mouth open, YELLS:

                            TIM

          Dr. Grant, Dr. Grant, look.

Grant turns, looks OFFSCREEN.  He's astonished by when he sees.

HIS POV - a row of shrubs, which Lex seems to soar above.  As a break in

the shrubs, it's clear that she's riding the baby triceratops.  Loving it.

                            LEX

          Whoa!

With a whoop, Grant and Timmy chase after Lex on her triceratops.

Lex rides through low brush, ducking down as she goes.  Then beneath the

tall trees as she enters the forest.  She crosses a stream on a log

b

ridge.  Light showers down through the branches.  The water shimmers.

Lex in is paradise.

Behind her, Grant and Timmy shout for her to stop.  She waves, kicks the

triceratops like it's a horse and YELLS:

                            LEX

          Giddyup!

The trike takes off, in a rush.  It trips over a fallen tree, downed by

the storm.  The trike takes a spill and Lex goes flying.

                            LEX

          Whoa!!  Take is easy!

She passes over the trike's head, in the air, and SCREAMS as she flies:

                            LEX

          I can't swim!

She SPLASHES into the stream.

Timmy, first to arrive on the scene, dives in heroically.  He comes up

sheepish and muddy - and sees Lex standing in a foot of water.

The baby dinosaur rolls to a stop, mowing down a patch of saplings as

she goes.  It stands up, dizzy and out of breath.

Timmy wipes mud off himself.  Grant helps the kids out of the water.

The baby triceratops follows them.  Grant yells to the baby trike.

           GRANT

          Go home now.  Home to Freda!

                            LEX

          Oh, let him stay.  He likes me to ride

          him.  He could carry me instead of you,

          Dr. Grant.  Please, let him stay,

Grant shakes his head,

                            GRANT

          Go!  Go away.  Go!  Get out of here!

The trike whimpers and watches the three of them walk on.  Lex is

heartbroken.

                            LEX

          Will I ever play with him again?

Grant looks across the field, abundantly beautiful in the early morning.

He has to keep them going.   He points across the field.

                            GRANT

          We gotta get to that motion detector.

          It's still a ways.

Lex looks behind her.  In the distance, more hadrosaurs join the herd

eating from the tall trees.  Some cool off in a shallow lagoon.  They

drink, lowering their flat heads, meeting their own reflections in the

still water.  When they look up again, their heads swivel.  At the

water's 

edge, a baby hadrosaur ventures out, squeaks, and scrambles back

while the adults watch indulgently.

EXT  OFF ROAD, PARK - MORNING

Muldoon and his workers now follow the compys on foot.  The compys trail

off in different directions.  Muldoon and his workers break apart to

track the different groups.

A BEARDED WORKER follows his party of compys.  He looks ahead and sees a

small group stopped ahead.  Their heads are bent to the ground.

A BALD WORKER has reached another cluster of compys.  Kicking, he

scatters them.

Muldoon's tracking leads him to the equipment graveyard where Nedry was

lost.  He sees his stolen red jeep.  He rushes to it.  On the passenger

side still sits the rocket launcher.  He opens the door to retrieve it.

When he leans in, his eye catches the tilted side-view mirror.  The

image is of many compys bent over the ground.  He comes around, YELLING.

                            MULDOON

          I found Nedry!

In the distance, the call is ECHOED.

                            BEARDED WORKE

R (OFF)

          I found him!

                            BALD WORKER (OFF)

          Found him!

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY

Hammond peeks in the door and sees Gennaro, heavily bandaged, dozing on

the couch.  Gennaro's eyes flutter and Hammond enters and smiles.

                            HAMMOND

          He, Donald.  Glad you're awake.  I hope

          you're not going to take this little

          mishap you had and hold it against my

          park.  It would be terrible if the

          finishing funds were in any way held up.

Gennaro just grins and shakes his head.  He's very high on morphine.  He

wants to speak but Hammond keeps talking.  After each sentence, Gennaro

enthusiastically agrees with a nod.

                            HAMMOND

          You really shouldn't have gotten out of

          the vehicle.  The park is actually quite

          safe.  A disenchanted worker sabotaged

          some equipment.  Arnold, Muldoon, and Wu,

          all loyal employees, are righting damage

      as we speak.

                            GENNARO

          Oh good, 'cause I love the park!  It's

          more than we ever dreamed!  Those

          brachiosaurs are so big!  And those

          Spitters -

              (he spits)

          - incredible!  I only have one problem.

          Aren't we going to have pterodactyls?

              (he frowns, smacks his forehead)

          Oh, they'd fly away!

Gennaro looks off, watching the imaginary pterodactyls fly away.

Hammond takes out a bag.

                            HAMMOND

          Take a look at these, Donald.  Have you

          seen these?  These are great.

Hammond dumps things out of the bag.  They are souvenirs of the park.

                            HAMMOND

          Wind-up toys.  Spitter umbrellas.

Gennaro is thrilled.

                            HAMMOND

          I got some great t-shirts.  Dinosaur

          bingo, hey ...

Hammond leans closer.

                            HAMMOND

          Wu says he can make a foot high

      triceratops.  We'll sell pets as living

          souvenirs.  Bio-engineered to eat only

          food we sell, of course.

Gennaro can't take it.  Great idea!  He high-fives Hammond repeatedly.

Harding enters and gently taps Hammond on the shoulder.

                            HARDING

          You'll have to bear with him, Mr. Hammond.

          He's doped to infinity and back.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY - DAY

Sunlight pours through the windows.  Ellie sits with her head in hands.

She looks around and wanders the lab.  Notices a drawer, slides it open.

X-rays.  She shuffles through, finds some marked: FREDA.

Ellie snaps on a viewing light at her lab station.  She studies the X-

ray.  She looks up in surprise.   Studies it again.

The viewing light is snapped off.  Ellie looks again.  Wu stands there.

                            WU

          Who gave you permission -

Ellie attacks back.

                            ELLIE

          I'm here to investigate this park. And

          there's

 plenty you haven't told me.

                            WU

          That's absurd.

                            ELLIE

          These bones aren't fully formed.

                            WU

          You're qualified to interpret x-rays of

          living dinosaurs?  I doubt it.  It took

          me many months to learn.

                            Y

          I'll tell you something else, Freda isn't

          an adult, just a huge juvenile.

                            WU

          You're making a lot of assumptions here.

                            ELLIE

          Right.  What the hell is going on, Wu?

They stare at each other in the bright sunlight.

                            HAMMOND (OFF)

          Growth hormones.

The two swing around.  Hammond stands in the sharp shadows of the room.

                            WU

          She didn't have a right to explore my lab.

                            HAMMOND

          Let's not argue, Wu, we have a serious

          problem.

              (to 

Ellie)

          These animals don't last.  There is a

          regularity, a predictability about when

          they die.  It's always ... very young.

          We don't know why.  Given time, I'm sure

          Wu will figure it out.  It's just ...

                            WU

          Just some adjustment in the code is

          required.

                            HAMMOND

          But there are deadlines.  The park opens

          next summer. And it requires full-grown

          specimens.  So Wu uses growth hormones to

          achieve the desired size in a short

          amount of time.  But they all keep dying

          and we don't know how to stop it.

Ellie and Wu stare at Hammond.  He steps forward.  The light is so hot

behind him that his appearance is like an apparition.

                            HAMMOND

          I was going to tell you all this myself,

          Dr. Sattler, after Gennaro stopped

          breathing down my neck.  That's why I

          wanted you and Dr. Grant 

here on my

          island - you have to help me keep the

          dinosaurs alive.  Won't you please help

          me?

                                                      CUT TO:

IN THE SKY, the sun momentarily burns through the clouds -

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - DAY

Ellie enters.  On the couch, Gennaro snores lightly.  In a chair nearby

Harding sleeps, a roll of gauze grasped in his hands.

Ellie walks over to the large model of the park that Hammond revealed.

She looks at the miniature dinosaurs that sit in different sectors of

the park.  She picks up the plastic Rex, examines it, drops it back in.

She brushes by Harding and studies Gennaro's pasty, sleeping face.  Air

blows in and out of his dry lips.  She examines the gauze wrapped around

his wounded leg.  It seeps with blood.

INT CONTROL - DAY

Arnold works at his console.  Hammond and Wu lean over his shoulder.

Ellie bursts in, very agitated.  Hammond looks up.

                            ELLIE

          Gennaro's losing a lot of blood. 

 He

          needs transfusions.  We gotta get a

          rescue helicopter.  Arnold, what's with

          the phones?

                            ARNOLD

          Ah hell. I just can't find it.

He sips his coffee and stares bleary-eyed at the screen.

                            ELLIE

          Find what?

                            ARNOLD

          Nedry jammed all the communication lines.

          He inserted some command, a lockout into

          the program code.  I can't find it,

          because I gave that restore command and

          it erased part of the program listings.

                            WU

          So?  Just reset - shut the system down

          and you'll clear the memory.  Everything

          will be in the normal wakeup mode.

                            ARNOLD

          Shut the system down?

                            WU

          And reset.

                            ARNOLD

          I've never done that before.  And I'm

          reluctant to do it.  Maybe it's tr

ue, all

          systems will come on, but maybe they won't.

                            ELLIE

          Look, there is a sick man here who needs

          medical attention or he'll die.  Four

          people are out there, missing in your

          park.  We need search teams.  We have to

          have a phone or radio.

Arnold still hesitates.

                            ELLIE

          Well?

                            ARNOLD

          Well, it's just that the safety systems

          don't function with the computer shut

          down and -

Ellie boils over.

                            ELLIE

          - turn the goddamn safety systems off!

          Can't you get it through your head that

          we have no choice?

Arnold looks at Hammond, who now stares out into the park.  Without

turning, Hammond nods his consent.

                            ARNOLD

          Okay.

Arnold gets up and goes to the main panel.  He opens the doors and

uncovers the metal swing-latches over the safety switches. 

 He pops them

off, one after another.

                            ARNOLD

          You asked for it.  And you got it.

He throws the master switch.

The control room goes black.  All monitors go black.  Arnold, Wu and

Ellie stand in the dark.

                            ELLIE

          How long do we have to wait?

                            ARNOLD

          Thirty seconds.

EXT  FIELD IN THE PARK -

Grant and kids walk through a clearing.  Lex stops.

                            GRANT

          What is it?

                            LEX

          I hear something.

                            GRANT

          Come on.

Timmy looks around. The morning is still and peaceful. Branches are

motionless.  Only a little bird jumps from one branch to another.

                            LEX

          Hear it now?

                            TIMMY

          You're hearing things.  Come on, we gotta

          get back and warn them about the boat.

Lex hesitates but doesn't want to be left behind.  She runs betw

een

Grant and Timmy.  Then they all hear it.

HONKING.  It comes from the herd of duck bills behind them.  First the

honking of a single animal, then another animal joins in, then another

and another, until the whole herd has taken up the honking cry.

                            TIMMY

          What's going on?

                            GRANT

          They're agitated.

The duckbills twist and turn.  They hurry out of the water, circling the

young ones to protect them.

With a ROAR, the T-Rex bursts from the trees, just a hundred yards away

straight toward the hadrosaurs.

                            LEX

          I told you I heard something!

The earth SHAKES.  A low rumble is heard and felt as the hadrosaurs begin

to run  in a parallel direction to the course of Grant and the kids.

                            GRANT

          Outta the way, kids! Run!

Grant grabs Lex, lifting her bodily off the ground, and carries her like

a football.  Timmy runs beside them.

Hadrosaurs run alongside of them.  Grant

 hears the crashing of trees.

He takes a glance over his shoulder.

GRANT'S POV - a flurry of flamingos takes flight and spooks the herd

into changing direction.  The hadrosaurs swerve and charge right into

the path of Grant, Lex and Timmy.  They all SCREAM.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

The quiet black room.  Hammond stands by the big window.  His pensive

presence affects all in the room.

Arnold looks at his illuminated watch.

                            ARNOLD

          Memory should be cleared by now.

He pushes the main switch back on.  Nothing on.

                            ARNOLD

          Damn.

Arnold pushes the switch off and then on again.  Still nothing.  He

glances at Hammond's back.  Sweat forms on his brow.

                            ELLIE

          What's wrong?

                            ARNOLD

          Oh hell!  I have to turn the safety switches

          back on before I restart the power.

Arnold flips on three safeties, and covers them again with latch covers.

Holding his breath, he

 turns on the main power switch.

First, there is the computer beep.  Ellie jumps.  Then relaxes.  The

lights come on.  The screens hum.  Hammond's shoulder twitches slightly.

                            ARNOLD

          Thank God!

The room is jubilant.  Hugs and cheers.  Ellie picks up a phone.

                            ELLIE

          Arnold!  They're still not working.

                            ARNOLD

          No, it sounds dead but after a reset, all

          system modules have to be brought on line

          manually.

Arnold quickly goes back to work at his console.  Hammond turns.

                            WU

              (to Hammond)

          Arnold's about to get the phones up.

Arnold pushes the chair back.

                            ARNOLD

          Okay, we're up again!

Ellie grabs the phone back up.

                            ELLIE

          No we're not.  Phones still dead.

Arnold swings her way.

                            ARNOLD

          Can't be -

        HAMMOND

          My God, look at this, Arnold.

Hammond points to the transparent map.  A tight cluster of dots by the

lagoon move in a coordinated way.  Moving fast, in a kind of swirl.

                            ELLIE

          What's happening?

                            ARNOLD

              (tonelessly)

          The duckbills.

                            WU

          My good God.

                            ELLIE

          What?

                            ARNOLD

          It's the Rex ...

                            HAMMOND

          They've stampeded ...

BACK ON  THE HADROSAURS - LOW ANGLE ON THE STAMPEDE -

Grant and kids run for their lives.  Behind them the duckbills charge

with surprising speed.  Their enormous bodies charge in a tight group,

kicking up dirt, rocks, whole trees as they thunder along.

CLOSE ON - a charging duckbill as he HONKS, eyes wild with fear.

A horrible ROAR of the T-Rex sends a duckbill infant squealing and

struggling to stay out from underfoot.

CLOSE ON

 - A huge adult foot almost tramples the infant.

Frightened and confused the infant scampers even deeper into the

maelstrom.  The frenzied herd raises a great cloud of yellow dust.

GRANT AND LEX AND TIMMY run wildly.  The stampede is very close behind

Grant and the kid's faces are covered with sweat and dust.

Another deafening ROAR of the T-Rex.

Grant leads them toward a rocky outcrop with a stand of big conifers.

The animals continue to close.

CLOSE ON - the running feet of the stampeding animals.  The ground

VIBRATES every time it is struck by the huge feet.

GRANT AND THE KIDS scramble onto the rocks.  They frantically tuck in

between big boulders as the the herd reaches them.  Lex shields her

dusty face with her hands as she wedges deeper between the rocks.  Grant

pushes her down deeper and looks up from between the rocks.

GRANT'S POV - the immense legs of the first hadrosaur to pass.  Another

slams its big tail against the rocks, leaving a splash of hot blood.

Stampeding legs send clods of dirt fl

ying in the air.  Above, even the

birds are running.  Disoriented, they fly frantically along.

GRANT AND THE KIDS are enveloped in dust.  Just shadows of huge bodies

with giant limbs.  BELLOWS of pain as animals wheel and circle.

A boulder is dislodged and it rolls toward Timmy.  He dives out of his

rocky hiding place.  The boulder continues on toward Grant and Lex.

They dive after Timmy.  The group buries itself anew in a group of thick

roots tangled amidst smaller rocks.  The boulder continues on, SMASHING

the rocky enclave they have just left.

Grant and the kids huddle and watch the last under-bellies oscillate

above them.  The stampede goes past.  They lie there, unable to move.

They watch the herd trample on.

CLOSE ON - The Rex's foot as it crushes a motion sensor.

Lex SCREAMS.  Grant and Timmy cover her mouth.

The T-Rex hunts down the herd.  He targets his prey.  A young hadrosaur.

As the hadrosaur gallops into the shadowy treeline, the Rex lunges

fiercely.  The Rex and its victim are enveloped 

in dust.

Grant holds Lex close.  She watches the terrible cloud with a quiet

horror.  Timmy makes the first move to leave.

                            TIMMY

          Let's go.  Now!

The herd's remainder gallops off into the safety of the deep jungle.

Grant, Lex and Timmy run in the opposite direction.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Hammond, Arnold, Wu, and Ellie watch the monitor as the dust slowly

clears.  Hadrosaurs scatter.

Now the Rex is calm and quiet.  BACK TO CAMERA, he gnaws on something.

                            HAMMOND

          No!  Oh no!  He make a kill.  He killed

          one of my animals!  Where's Muldoon?

                            ARNOLD

          I'm sorry, Mr. Hammond.

                            HAMMOND

          My animals!  My animals!

Muldoon enters, limping in.  Hammond is very upset.

                            HAMMOND

          Where have you been?  My Rex killed a

          hadrosaur.  You should be out there,

          doing something.

                            MUL

DOON

          I just came to tell you - you're minus

          one computer expert.

EXT  BY THE RIVER, PARK - DAY

The water rushes a few hundred yards away.  Grant and the kids have

finally rested enough.  Grant nods to Timmy.

                            GRANT

          We'll walk by the river.  That leads back

          to the Visitor's center.

                            LEX

          Not me.  I'm not walking anymore.

                            TIMMY

          Come on Lex, I'll carry you.

                            LEX

          Nope.  Too scared.

Timmy looks up at Grant.  Grant kneels down by Lex.  Lex embraces Grant.

                            GRANT

          You ready?

She wipes her tears.

                            LEX

          Can we go on the raft?  Then we don't

          have to walk so close to the animals!

                            GRANT

          What raft?

Lex points to a low concrete maintenance building with bars.  It is

twenty yards away.

                            LEX

          Where I found Freda's baby.

Grant start to stand.  He's thinking.

                            GRANT

          It's still mid-morning.  I bet we have at

          least ten miles to go.  If we take the

          raft along the river, we can make much

          faster progress.

                            TIMMY

          Let's do it.

INT  MAINTENANCE BUILDING -

Grant stumbles deep in the gloomy recesses of the building.  He pushes

past drums of herbicide, tree-pruning equipment, spare tires, coils of

cyclone fencing, huge fertilizer bags, stacks of ceramic insulators,

empty motor-oil cans, work-lights and cables.

                            GRANT

          Lex, I don't see any raft.

Timmy looks at Lex.  Where is it?  Lex doesn't know.

                            TIMMY

          Keep going.

Grant keeps pushing through bags of cement, lengths of copper pipe,

piles of green mesh.  Two plastic oars hang on the concrete wall.

                            GRANT

          Bullseye!

Timmy is reliev

ed.  Lex smiles.

                            LEX

          Told you!

Grant grabs them.  Looks around, still -

                            GRANT

          No raft. Where did you see it, Lex?

                            LEX

          Actually, I never really saw one. Just

          assumed.

                            GRANT

          Assumed?

She nods.  Grant and Timmy resume looking.

IN THE REAR OF THE BUILDING - Lex walks below a barred window.  Slats of

light fall on her back.  She sees a dark closet door ajar.  She brushes

the handle.  It swings opens and two bright orange life preservers fall

on her, knocking her to the ground.

LEX SCREAMS, frantically pushing the life preservers off.

Grant's head pops up.  Timmy runs to her side.  She is wrestling

irrationally with the life preservers.  Timmy drops to the ground.

                            TIMMY

          Lex!  Lex!  You're okay, you're okay!

Lex is overcome with fear.  Timmy grabs a preservers and puts it on.

                            TIMM

Y

          Look, Lex!  Look!

She looks at him, realizes, and bursts out laughing.  Timmy laughs with

her.  Grant joins them.  He sits on a box and laughs.

                            GRANT

          I'm afraid there's no raft.

Grant gets up.  He reaches for the hands of the kids.  Timmy sees it -

the box Grant sat on is labeled: RAFT STORAGE.  Timmy smiles..

AT THE RIVER'S EDGE -

Grant pulls a cord.

With a LOUD HISS, the rubber begins to expand uncontrollably, jerking

and jumping like a wild marionette.  Then, with a whopping HISS-WHAP! it

pops fully open on the deck: a large bright yellow rubber raft.

Timmy and Lex climb in, wearing the life preservers.  Grant gets in and

pushes off with his oars.

The small disturbance causes the cicadas to ROAR.  The raft drifts out

into the lagoon.  Grant fixes his oars into the oarlocks.

Grant surveys the river.

                            GRANT

          Looks pretty calm.

THUMP.  The raft stops moving.  They are aground.  Lex looks overboard.

She reaches in

 about elbow deep.

Grant stands and puts the oars in the water.  He pushes with all his

might.  There is a long scraping sound of the raft against the mud

floor.  But it moves.  And the raft goes into deep enough water.

A general sigh of relief as they gently float downstream.

A WIDE AREA OF THE RIVER -

Grant energetically works the oars.

CLOSE ON - Lex lets her hand trail in the water.

                            LEX

          I'll row, Dr. Grant.

                            GRANT

          No.

But he's sweating and takes a moment to rest.  Lex looks down at her

hand in the water.  It still trails.

                            LEX

          Hey, we're still moving.

Grant looks into the water.  She's right.

                            GRANT

          There's a current.

Grant lays back against the rubber gunwales, closes his eyes.  The two

kids look at him.

                            LEX

          You can't sleep.

                            GRANT

              (eyes closed)

          I'm not sl

eeping... yet.

                            LEX

          I'll do it!

Lex picks up the oars and begins.

                            TIMMY

          We gotta warn them about the boat.

Grant opens one eye and looks up at the sun in the sky.  He sighs and

takes up the oars again.  He rows powerfully with the current.

A BEND IN THE RIVER -

Current picks up speed.  The water begins to rush and ROAR.

                            TIMMY

          Cool!

White foam crashes on the raft and sprays the kids.  They burst out

laughing.  Grant smiles at them, but there is concern in his eyes.

ANOTHER BEND -

Now the raft is really racing.  The kids hold on tightly as the raft is

rocked.  White water crashed over, drenching the kids.  When Grant takes

a moment to look, he is soaked by a huge wave.

The raft tosses right and left.  Timmy holds the rubber grips.  He's

yanked to one side.  He's knocked to the raft floor.  Quickly gets his

grip again.  SHOUTS to Grant.

                            TIMMY

          Thought

 is looked calm?

                            GRANT

          Guess I was wrong.

Grant looks ahead.  The river widens.  The raft really starts to fly.

Lex, gripping very tightly, looks out.  Water sprays her again and

again.  Her face is serious.

                            LEX

          I can't swim!

Grant grabs the raft's tie line and pulls it out of its rubber rings.

He lashes it around Lex and Timmy.  Then he ties it around one of the

rubber grips.

                            GRANT

          Hold on real tight.

They go flying down the river.  The ROAR deafens.

The raft lifts out of the water.  And crashes down, rocking every way.

Jagged rocks appear.  Grant uses his paddle as a club to push off the

rocks and the rushing shoreline.  The kids duck from sudden overhanging

trees.

Grant looks ahead.  He blanches.

HIS POV - the surging edge of a tumultuous waterfall.

They're almost there.  At the huge waterfall, water rushes violently,

heaving over the magnificent precipice.

Timmy tries to tighten L

ex's vest but is thrown back down .  He YELLS:

                            TIMMY

          Hold my hand.  Hold my hand when we go.

The raft spins in the rushing water.  Everyone is thrown around.

The rope holding the kids to the raft tautens. The oars are wrestled out

of Grant's hands and go flying through the air, spilling over the edge.

At the last moment, Grant spots a tree branch arching over the cascade.

With all his might, he stands and holds his balance long enough. to let

his hands smash into the overhanging branch.

They stop right at the waterfall's edge.

Grant struggles mightily to hold onto the branch.  But the water keeps

rushing.  His strength ebbs.

                            TIMMY

          Don't let go!

Grant's veins pop out in his arms.  His hands start to slip off the wet

tree bark.  Lex watches his hands slowly lose their grip.

The rubber raft jumps and leaps below him.  Water pours into the raft.

Lex tries fruitlessly to let it out.  Timmy holds down Grant's feet.

             TIMMY

          You can do it!

                            GRANT

          I'm trying.  I'm trying ... Ooooo!!! ....

His hands slipping, slipping ...

                            GRANT

          No!!!!!

                                                      CUT TO:

CLOSE ON - The T-Rex, face down in the mud.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Arnold, Wu, Muldoon, and Ellie stare raptly at the monitor.

                            MULDOON

          Son-of-a-bitch.  He's taking a nap.

          Hasn't been this well fed ... ever.

Hammond is above, in his throne.  He calls down:

                            HAMMOND

          Could he drown in that position?  That's

          a very valuable animal.

                            MULDOON

          I know it's a valuable animal.

Muldoon takes a step up toward Hammond's throne and the two argue

quietly back and forth.  In the foreground, Wu calls Arnold over.

                            WU

          What's that, John?

Wu points to the screen behind 

Arnold's head.  In the upper right-hand

corner, it blinks a yellow warning:  AUX PWR LOW!  Ellie regards it.

                            ELLIE

          You running on auxiliary power?

                            ARNOLD

          I'm not.

                            WU

          Looks like you are.

                            ARNOLD

          Can't be.

                            WU

          Print the system status log.

Arnold nods and rapidly strikes keys.  In the corner, a printer whirs to

life.  Moments later, it spins out a single page.  Arnold tears it off.

Ellie continues to stare at the screen.  It now flashes red:  AUX PWR

FAIL!  An alarm klaxon BLARES.

Hammond holds his ears against the noise.  He stands up.

The room lights begin to FLASH.  They're reflected in Hammond's eyes.

Hammond ROARS above the chaos.

                            HAMMOND

          What the hell is going on?

Onscreen, numbers begin to count backward from ten.  Hammond lurches.

At zero, the lights go off, the monitors,

 even the computer.  Just the

alarms keep screaming.

                            HAMMOND

          You're ruining my ordered, precise park!

Arnold ignores him, keeps pressing buttons.  Hammond rushes toward

Arnold.  Arnold looks over his shoulder in surprise.  Hammond SCREAMS.

                            HAMMOND

          Fix my park, Arnold!  Fix it!

Arnold crosses his hands in front of his face, blocking Hammond's

attack.  Hammond grabs Arnold's wrists and the two twirl to the ground.

Breathing heavily, Hammond clutches his hand to his own chest.

Arnold stands up, brushes off.  He puts himself together, looks at

Hammond.  He SHOUTS over the siren:

                            ARNOLD

          I know it's hard, I know it's hard, but

          I'm going to put it all back together for

          you - I promise.  I will

BACK ON RAFT AT WATERFALL -

Grant still clings to the overhanging branch, holding the raft from

toppling over the crashing waterfall.  Lex and Timmy hold onto his legs.

The ROAR of the

 water diminishes.  And the flow subsides from a raging

current to a rolling river.  And then to a gentle stream.  A trickle.

Nothing.

Grant slowly relaxes, lets go.  So do the children.  Around the raft,

the water level begins to drain.  Gradually, Grant and the kids are left

in the raft sitting in just a few puddles of water.  Around them,

various pumps and other equipment is exposed where it was once covered

by rushing white water.

                            LEX

          The waterfall stopped.

                            TIMMY

          Waterfalls aren't supposed to stop.

                            GRANT

          I think they cut the power.  Hey -

He points and the three of them look over the edge where the waterfall

once poured.  There's a shimmering rainbow and beyond that, in the mist

is the visitor's center.

                            GRANT

          Well, there's our pot of gold.  Let's go,

          kids.

They grab his hands and clamber out of the raft, running toward shore.

BACK ON CON

TROL ROOM -

Muldoon pulls open the blinds and the hot sun filters in, so the room is

alternate patches of bright and dark.

In a hot corner, Ellie squats over a prostate Hammond, mopping his brow

with a cool cloth.  He murmurs, only barely intelligible.

                            HAMMOND

          Told him, fix my park, fix my park.

Wu brings the printout to Arnold.  The printout is a chronological

rendering of control room events since the restart.  It is clear they

have been running on auxiliary power.  Wu yells above the alarm:

                            WU

          You shut down as six thirty-four this

          morning, and when you started back up, it

          was with auxiliary power.

                            ARNOLD

          Jesus.  The auxiliary generator fires up

          first and then that's used to start the

          main generator because it needs a heavy

          charge.  The main generator has to be

          manually reset.

                            WU

          Outside?  In

 the generator building?

Arnold nods.  Muldoon points to a line in the printout:

06:35:22   WARNING: FENCE STATUS (NB)  OPERATIVE - AUX POWER

                            MULDOON

          This doesn't mean the fences have been

          off since six-thirty, does it?

Arnold grabs the paper, looks at it, slams it down.

                            ARNOLD

          Backup power doesn't generate enough

          amperage to power the electrified fences,

          so they were automatically kept off.

          That's also why we had no phones or

          radio.

                            MULDOON

          All of the fences?

                            ARNOLD

          Yes.

                            MULDOON

          Including the velociraptor mesh?

                            ARNOLD

              (disgusted, exhausted)

          Yes, yes, yes.

In the corner, Hammond lifts his head and Ellie gently helps him to a

sitting position.

                            HAMMOND

          Do you mean those raptor

s could be loose?

                            ARNOLD

          I'm afraid so.

                            MULDOON

          No, no way.  Last time, it took 'em two

          days to chew through that mesh.  But give

          'em enough time, they'll get out.  We

          better get that power on now.

                            HAMMOND

          Regardless, check the pit.  Make sure

          there' five of them there.

EXT  VISITOR'S CENTER - AFTERNOON

Muldoon and Arnold run across the lawn.  Muldoon carries his rocket

launcher at a ready position.  In the distance, the alarm still SOUNDS,

lights FLASH a continued warning.

They reach the maintenance building where the generator is housed.  Its

familiar him has been replaced by its own alarms.  The closer they

approach, the louder and brighter these alarms are.  Grey steam pours

out of the vents of the building, obscuring everything.

                            ARNOLD

          What's that steam coming out of my

          generator room?

                 MULDOON

          Relax, it's just refrigerated air.

          There's a leaky cooling pipe.  I fixed it

          a couple times before but the original

          installation was at too sharp an angle.

Arnold accepts this.  He is about to enter when Muldoon instructs him.

                            MULDOON

          Just go and turn on your generator, then

          get right back to the control room.

Arnold lights a cigarette and disappears into the steam-shrouded door.

EXT  RAPTOR PIT - AFTERNOON

Muldoon inspects an extremely discouraging sight.  The thick mesh that

covered the pit has been chewed through and ripped open.  With heavy gun

in one hand, Muldoon shines his flashlight into the pit.  It's empty.

Muldoon looks up.

MULDOON'S POV - the dense forest surrounding the Visitor's Center.

Muldoon examines the ground.  He locates the raptor prints leading away

Muldoon breaks into a run.

INT/EXT  GENERATOR ROOM - AFTERNOON

Muldoon comes back to the generator room still runnin

g full-tilt.  He

kicks open the door.  Steam pours out.  Standing in the thick steam,

Muldoon yells for Arnold.  No answer.  He steps in the doorway and

shines his flashlight around.

MULDOON'S POV - Only the dark abstract shapes of rakes and coiled ropes

and small machinery can be seen in the steam.

Muldoon yells again.  No answer at all.  Muldoon curses and leaves.

As soon as Muldoon is gone, there is movement.  Even above the sirens,

an animalistic breathing, grunting can be heard.  Obscured by steam and

flashing lights, a reptilian claw clutches a shadow.  A pack of

cigarettes falls to the ground, spilling out on the floor.

INT  CONTROL ROOM - AFTERNOON

Muldoon enters and confronts Hammond, Ellie, and Wu,

                            MULDOON

          Raptors chewed their way out.  All five

          are out there.

                            ELLIE

          Arnold's not with you?

Muldoon looks around grimly.  He shakes his head.

                            MULDOON

          I was hoping he was ba

ck here already.

Hammond takes charge.

                            HAMMOND

          This is why my quarters were specially

          fortified.  To assist in an emergency just

          like this one.  Let's go.  Muldoon, round

          up the workers.  They'll go with us too.

Muldoon stares at Hammond, then drops it.  They prepare to go.

                            ELLIE

          Wait.  What about Arnold?

EXT  HILLSIDE, PARK -

Grant and the kids come over the hill.  Timmy sees the big fence and the

Visitor's Center close behind.

                            TIMMY

          We're home!

Lex and Grant happily run down the hill.

EXT  ELECTRIFIED FENCE IN PARK - AFTERNOON

Grant and the kids stand in the long shadows of the electric fence.

This huge fence is much higher than what Timmy has had to climb.  Grant

turns to him apologetically.

                            GRANT

          Sorry, Tim.  We gotta climb up.

                            TIM

          That's all right, Dr. Grant.  You owe me

       one.

EXT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - AFTERNOON

Wu stands at the open sliding gate of the perimeter fence surrounding

Hammond's quarters..  Next to him is Ellie.  Behind both of them,

launcher at the ready, is Muldoon.  Watching from the window above,

Hammond waves.  Ellie and Wu wear radio headsets.

                            MULDOON

          Okay Wu, I'll have you covered at every

          moment.  But this shell carries quite a

          punch, so if you're too close, it'll take

          a piece of you.  Ellie's on the headset

          with you.  If another ones come at you,

          let her know.  Then Ellie - you start

          jumping and yelling.  The buggers are

          easily distracted.  They'll come running

          and let Wu get that power on.  Then both

          of you, get behind this fence as quick as

          possible.

Wu and Ellie nod seriously and test radio contact.  We starts his way

across the lawn, Muldoon limps behind with his launcher.  Ellie stands

ready at the open 

gate.

Wu takes slow steps.  Muldoon follows.  Wu is just five feet away from

the door to the generator building.

CLOSE ON - Wu's tense face.

THE ATTACK is sudden and fierce.  It comes from the brush.  The raptor

leaps onto Wu in an instant.  Wu and the raptor roll on the ground.  Wu

struggles for his life.  Muldoon can't get a safe shot.  He SCREAM:

                            MULDOON

          Wu, get away.  Give me room to shoot.

Ellie comes running away from the safety of the gate.  She jumps up and

down, waving her hands, and SCREAMS:

                            ELLIE

          Hey you cretaceous dromaeosaur, you can't

          catch me.  Hey, come and get me, you

          flat-snouted Mongolian beast.  Hey!

The Raptor is distracted by this.  He lets Wu go for a moment, shaking

him loose from his bloody jaws.  Instantly, Wu rolls away.  Muldoon

fires the rocket launcher.  With a SIZZLE, the missile fires.  BOOM!

Direct hit!  The raptor is blown to tiny pieces.

Muldoon grabs Wu and pulls the inju

red man to safety.

                            MULDOON

          You ok?

In reply Wu gets to his feet, looks where the Raptor was.

                            WU

          Now, there's four.

Muldoon helps Wu back inside the fence.  He waves for Ellie to come in

and join them.

Ellie takes off toward the generator building.  She YELLS:

                            ELLIE

          I'm going in.  Muldoon, cover the door

          after I go in.  Wu, guide me!

Muldoon yells for her to wait but stops when he realizes that this may

be their best plan.

Ellie races like a gazelle across the open lawn.  She's very fast and

graceful.  She ducks into the generator building.

Above it all, Hammond watches at the small viewing window.

BACK ON - GRANT AND KIDS AT FENCE

The three are at the top of the fence now.  Grant carefully lifts Lex

above the barbed wire and she grabs onto the other side of the fence to

begin the climb down.  Grant grabs Tim and lifts him next.  Tim's tense

face is a river of sweat.

INT  GE

NERATOR BUILDING -

Ellie finishes the stairs and feels her way along the basement wall.

Her face is lit by a flashing yellow light.  She bangs her head on a

pipe.  She rubs her head.

                            ELLIE

          Damn, I banged my head.

                            WU (OVER RADIO)

          Oh that's good, that must be the water

          pipe.  You're really close now, there's a

          cabinet just above your head.  Reach up

          and open it.  The handle turns to the

          left.

Ellie turns the handle.  The cabinet opens.

                            WU (OVER RADIO)

          It's a large throw-switch.  Pull it down,

          count to three, and push it back up.

          That's all there is to it.

Ellie throws it down.  She counts:

                            ELLIE

          One -

BACK ON GRANT AND KIDS -

Just a few feet from the bottom of the fence.

BACK ON ELLIE -

                            ELLIE

          Two -

BACK ON GRANT AND KIDS -

Grant and Timmy jump down. 

 Lex is just behind.  Her sneaker catches in

the fence pattern.  She pulls on it.

BACK ON ELLIE -

                            ELLIE

          Three!

She throws the large switch back.

BACK ON LEX -

She jumps off the fence.  Her sneaker comes off, falls to the ground.

CAMERA PUSHES IN ON LEX - it celebrates her narrow escape.

Grant casually leans against the fence to help Lex with her shoe.

NOTHING!  STILL NO ELECTRIC FENCES!

The Visitor's Center is in sight.  They all turn to each other.  Elated.

                            LEX

          We did it!

                            TIM

          We made it!

Lex jumps up and down.  Grant smiles, high-fives Timmy.

BACK ON ELLIE -

The siren and the flashing lights stop.  The room lights go on.  Ellie

turns to go back upstairs.  Her foot slips, she falls to the ground.

She has slipped on a pool of blood.  She jumps up, recoils.

It's Arnold.  She squelches a SCREAM, covering her own mouth.

SMASH!  Ellie SCREAMS as a raptor lunges at her.   He jumps down

 from

above the water pipe Ellie banged her head on.

Ellie turns and races toward a ventilation shaft.  She dives into it.

The raptor gets there a second late and smashes against the shaft wall.

Ellie pushes herself against the shaft wall and, using her legs to push

against the wall, begins to climb up.

The raptor smashes against the shaft again and gets inside.  Ellie

scrambles up.  The raptor snarls and spits but it is momentarily pinned.

Ellie continues her scramble up the shaft.  At ground level, she slams

her feet hard against a vent, popping it open.  Scraping the wall and

banging against pipes, she races toward the door.

EXT  GENERATOR BUILDING - CONTINUING ACTION

Ellie runs full-tilt toward the fence surrounding Hammond's quarters.

Wu, injured, lies within the safety of the fenced area.  Muldoon stands

with his rocket launcher just outside the fence waiting for Ellie.

Ellie screams to him as she speeds across the lawn.

                            ELLIE

          Raptor!

The raptor EXPLODES th

rough the door of the generator building after

Ellie.

Muldoon fires at the raptor. Misses.  No time to reload.

The raptor gains on Ellie.  Muldoon ducks inside the fence's heavy gate.

He slides the gate half-shut, waving Ellie on.

Ellie dives inside the safety of the fence, losing her headset as she

goes.  The gate is almost closed.  The raptor lunges.

Muldoon slides shut the heavy gate, bashing the raptor's head with all

his might.  The raptor shudders, caught in the gate.  Stunned, for a

second, it doesn't move.

Ellie and Muldoon run to the building.  They push open the steel-clad

security door and dive inside.  Wu limping, chases after them.  With a

curse, Muldoon pushes the door back open, waves for Wu.

ELLIE AND MULDOON'S POV - Wu runs frantically.  The raptor jerks out of

the gate, inside of the fence.  He races after Wu.

                            WU

          Keep it open!  I'm coming!

Wu runs faster.  The raptor gains on him.  Wu screams, runs spastically.

Wu and the raptor are neck-and-neck

, equally close to the open door.

                            ELLIE

          Come on, Wu!  Come on!  Run!

The raptor is inches from Wu.  Both are closer and closer to the door.

                            ELLIE

          They're coming inside!

                            WU

          Help!

Wu and the raptor are at the door.

                            MULDOON

          No they're not, Ellie.

Muldoon slams the door shut on Wu and the raptor.  Wu's screams are

horrific.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS - CONTINUING ACTION

Ellie drops to her knees, her chest heaving, pulls her headset off with

a bleeding hand.  Muldoon, affected, turns to her.

                            MULDOON

          I couldn't compromise everyone's safety.

Ellie nods, catches her breath.

                            ELLIE

          Why didn't the power go on?

                            MULDOON

          You just reset the power.  Now the

          computer has to be booted.

Muldoon looks out the tiny barred window of the security do

or.

MULDOON'S POV - There is already almost no sign of Wu.  The gate to the

perimeter fence slides shut.  The raptor looks up.  He is trapped within

the perimeter fence of Hammond's quarters.

CAMERA SLOWLY TILTS to the viewing window above.  Hammond stares down.

INT  VISITOR'S CENTER -

Grant and kids walk through the open security doors.  All is empty and

quiet.  They call out but there are no answers.

                            LEX

          Where did everybody go?

Grant thinks.

                            GRANT

          Probably your grandfather's quarters.

          Let's go.

A DISTANT BELLOW.  Grant reconsiders.

                            GRANT

          Actually, stay here.

He corrals the kids into the half completed enclosure of the Gift Shop.

                            LEX

          No, I want to stay with you.

Grant looks around tensely.

                            GRANT

          No, keep an eye on things round here for

          me.  I'll be back with the others.

           TIMMY

          What about -

Grant looks at Timmy.

                            GRANT

          I'll radio the ship as soon as I find

          somebody.  (beat)  You're in charge now.

          Don't move from here ... unless you have

          to, ok?

Timmy nods.  Lex is happy, sinks to the floor.

                            LEX

          Goody!  I'm gonna rest.

She finds a box of wind-up dinosaur toys. She winds one. Sends it

walking to Timmy.

                            TIMMY

          Tired!  He carried you the whole way.

Grant slips off into the concealing shadows of the skeletal display of

the T-rex and raptor in combat.  He looks back above his own shoulder

into the menacing jaws of the skeletal raptor.  He shouts back.

                            GRANT

          Be right back.

INT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

It's a madhouse in the crowded baronial quarters of Hammond.  Gennaro is

singing at the top of his-lungs while Harding tries to restrain him.

Scared Workers huddle together, many a

re injured.  Hammond sits on the

floor, in a meditative trance.

Ellie and Muldoon stare out the window.

THEIR POV - The raptor is jumping in the air.  With every jump he comes

closer to leaping onto the roof of their small building.

Muldoon regards his rocket launcher ruefully.

                            ELLIE

          Why don't you just nail that bastard?

                            MULDOON

          No more ammo.  I requisitioned six

          charges but the bean-counter -

              (he thrusts a finger at Hammond)

          - cut it down to two.

Ellie looks up to the ceiling.  There is a large glass skylight with

crisscrossing iron bars casting an ominous shadow in the sun.

EXT  THE ANNE B AT SEA - DAY

The ship continues along smooth sunlit sea.  Land is in distant sight.

INT  STATEROOM -

The cracked egg is nudged open.  The cute scaly head of a six-inch baby

raptor nuzzles its way out of the shell.  It shakes off a few pieces of

clinging shell and immediately begins to devour one of the

 remaining eggs.

                                                      CUT TO:

CLOSE ON - The wind-up dinosaur skitters across the polished floor.  It

bands against the  the wall again and again.

Timmy looks down at it and smiles at Lex.

                            LEX

          Any candy behind the counter?

                            TIMMY

          Hungry?

                            LEX

          Starved.

Timmy looks behind the counter.  He sees boxes of goods.  He moves a

stack of umbrellas out of his way.  Lex gets up and pulls one out.

                            TIMMY

          Nothing.

                            LEX

          Let's go to the kitchen.

She smiles and pops to her feet.  Timmy's not sure.

                            TIMMY

          Dr. Grant said -

                            LEX

          - let's go.  We'll come right back.

CLOSE ON - Timmy's torn face.  He's hungry, too.

He makes the right decision.

                            TIMMY

          Nope.  We're waiting here t

ill Dr. Grant

          gets back.  He'll help us get some -

Interrupted by A SOUND.  A rhythmic, horrible BREATHING.   Now some

light and rapid STEPS.  And a SNIFFING.  It's definitely an animal.

Lex backs off in a hurry. She knocks the umbrella over.  It skirts

across the floor.  It spins and opens by itself.  Printed on it is the

ferocious face of the Spitter, the sides of its bright poisonous gills

spinning to a stop.

The breathing gets closer and closer.  The children huddle together in a

corner of the gift shop.  They SCREAM.

It's A RAPTOR, lean and ferocious.  More like a cyborg than a hunter, it

studies the kids from just outside the gift shop entrance.  His eyes

flick back and forth between the two pieces of meat.

Timmy grabs the box of toy dinosaurs.  He winds one up and sends it off

across the hall.  The raptor glances over at the moving toy.  Timmy

grabs another, whispers as he winds it.

                            TIMMY

          Start winding now!

Lex and Timmy wind toy after toy, send th

em across the hall.  The raptor

leaps, crushing one in its jaws.  Others waddle by.  The raptor dodges

and darts, grabbing this one, smashing that one.

The kids go running out into the hall.  They race down the Visitor

Center corridor.  Timmy pulls Lex behind him toward the restaurant.

                            LEX

          Where are we going?

                            TIM

          The kitchen!

INT/EXT  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

With a huge leap, the raptor finally makes it to the roof of Hammond's

quarters.  He jumps lightly onto the skylight.  Glass shatters over the

assembled guests and workers below.  Total commotion and SCREAMS.

The raptor immediately begins to gnaw at the iron bars that block the

skylight.  Below, they shake off shards of glass and huddle in the

corners.  Ellie turns to Muldoon.

                            ELLIE

          How long?

                            MULDOON

          Well, they seem to be getting faster all

          the time. I would say - fifteen minutes.

Ellie no

tices something out the window.  It's Grant approaching the

gate.  She hammers on the glass.

Grant's hand reaches for the knob.

The raptor stops gnawing, its ears perked up.

Ellie screams and screams.

Grant notices some of Wu's remains inside the gate.  He stops and looks

up.  At the window, Ellie waves her arms, warning him not to enter.

Grant stops.  He sees Wu's headset on the grass, reaches through the

fence, grabs it, puts it on.

Ellie jumps up and gets her headset.  She barks into it.

                            ELLIE

          There's a raptor on the roof of this

          building.  Open that gate and you're a

          dead man.

Grant stares up at Ellie in the window.  He waves.  She presses her hand

to the glass.

                            GRANT

          Ellie, I'm go glad -

                            ELLIE

          Shut up and listen.  We have about

          fifteen minutes here.  The computer has

          to be rebooted.  That'll turn on the

          electric fences.  Besides the r

aptor

          stuck in here with us, there are four

          more ...

Grant races back to the Visitor's Center as she continues to fill him in.

INT  KITCHEN, VISITOR'S CENTER - CONTINUING ACTION

The kids hurtle through this huge, industrial kitchen.  The kitchen is a

maze of turns, from the hot lamp pickup area to the rows of stainless

steel burners to the chopping blocks to the potwashing area.  The kids

dart and duck from one area to the next, taking shortcuts under tables,

crawling behind counters, scattering pots and pans behind.

Relentlessly, with a casual speed, the raptor stalks them.  It avoids

their obstacles with a casual grace and when it cannot fit through their

shortcuts, it just continues around.

Timmy pulls open the large silvered door of the freezer.  Lex starts to

hurry inside.  Timmy grabs her.

                            TIMMY

          We'll freeze to death in there.

                            LEX

          He's going to eat us!

Timmy reaches into the freezer and grabs a pile 

of steaks.  He tosses one

toward the raptor.  The raptor gobbles it in one bite.  Timmy shoves Lex

out of the way and begins to toss the steaks on the floor.  One after the

other, he tosses them, in a row, closer and closer to the open freezer.

The raptor mechanically gobbles the steaks, following their path.  He

continues right into the freezer to grab the last of Tim's bait.

Tim leaps and slams the heavy freezer door shut.  Lex comes running and

throws her small weight alongside of Timmy's.

                            TIMMY

          PUSH!

The heave and the lock catches on the door.  From inside, there is a

strangled CRY and the door is slammed repeatedly.  The metal panels of

the door buckle but they do not break.  The door hinges bend and curve

but they do not give.

The kids collapse in relief on the kitchen floor.  In just a moment,

Timmy is back on his feet.

                            LEX

          What is it, Timmy?

                            TIMMY

          I just remembered something.  Rapto

rs are

          born in large litters.  There's probably

          more coming.  We gotta hide.

He grabs her hand and they run out of the back entrance of the kitchen.

There's a stairway and they race up.

INT  GIFT SHOP -

Grant, wearing his headset, calls for the kids and looks around the gift

shop with concern.  He sniffs the air and examines the crushed windup

toys.  He sees some animal scales on the floor.  He hears a NOISE above

and begins to run.

INT  UPPER FLOOR HALLWAY, VISITOR'S CENTER -

The kids hear this NOISE too and it's closer to them.  They bust into -

INT  AMBER ROOM, LABORATORY -

The kids knock over trays of stones as they rush through this room.

INT  EXTRACTION ROOM, LABORATORY -

Automated drills whir as Tim and Lex crash through, knocking equipment

to the ground.  The drills still whir on the ground.

INT  GENETICS ROOM -

The Hamachi-Hood sequencers explode in a heap of punch cards and

magnetic tape as the kids race by.

INT  INCUBATION ROOM, LABORATORY -

The kids slide int

o this room.  They race to its far corner, past

incubators and display cases of chemicals.  They look back and see -

KID'S POV - A raptor happily gorging itself on a table of eggs.  He's

been in this room, their place of refuge, the whole time.

CLOSE ON - The raptor's glistening eyes register the children.

He begins to stalk.  The kids SCREAM.  This time there is nowhere to go.

The raptor closes in on the kids.  Timmy feebly stands in front of his

younger sister.

CLOSE ON - The raptor licks its lips, lizard-like.

At the other end of the room, GRANT ENTERS quickly.  He surveys the

situation.  Quickly, he grabs an egg off a table.  He reaches into one

of the chemical cabinets with POISON WARNINGS prominently displayed.  He

comes out with a syringe and a vial.

The raptor is almost on the kids.  Grant coughs conspicuously.  The

raptor whirls, studies Grant.  He looks back at the children.

Grant speaks into the headset.

                            GRANT (TO RADIO)

          Talk, Ellie, just keep talking.

He tosses the headset on the ground.  Ellie's voice crackles out.  The

raptor studies it, transfixed.

Grant injects the egg, then gently rolls it on the ground.  The raptor

forgets the headset.  He comes forward and sniffs the egg, then sucks it

up, swallowing it whole.

The raptor turns back to the kids.  He takes two steps toward them,

tenses to pounce - and keels over.  DEAD.

The kids race around the dead raptor to Grant.  Grant grabs his headset

as the three run out of the room.  Grant addresses Timmy as they run.

                            GRANT

          Timmy, you know anything about computers?

                            TIMMY

          Well, I just got an XT at home.  I told

          my Dad I wanted a 386.

                            GRANT

          Ok good, you're elected.

INT  CONTROL ROOM -

Grant and Tim and Lex study the quiet room.  Grant speaks calmly into

his headset.

                            GRANT (TO RADIO)

          Okay, we've reached the computer room.

          Who can te

ll Timmy how to reboot?

                            ELLIE (OVER RADIO)

          Ah, Alan, nobody here knows how to boot

          the computer.  Please hurry, we've only

          got a couple minutes left.

                            GRANT

          Tim, you got to book the system.  They

          reset the power and there are no phones.

          We gotta turn on the fences and we gotta

          stop that ship.

                            LEX

          Are they going to be ok?

                            GRANT

          If we can get help very soon.

                            TIMMY

          Sshh, you guys, I'm thinking.

He studies a grid on a large console.  He reaches out and touches a part

of the screen.  There is a beep and a warning sign - INVALID ARGUMENT.

PLEASE TRY AGAIN.

BACK ON  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

The raptor has chewed almost all the way through the bars.  Panic below.

In the middle of it all, Ellie is focused, listening on her headset.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Timmy tries somethin

g else.  BEEP.  Lex raises a hand.  Grant stops her.

                            GRANT (TO RADIO)

          Ellie, we're working as fast as we can

          here.

Timmy tries a screen section.  BEEP.  Again. BEEP.  Again.  BEEP.  BEEP.

Timmy shakes his head.  In desperation he stabs at the keyboard below

the touch screen.  He punches the ESCAPE button.

The screen lights up a new message - SYSTEM RESET COMPLETED.  ALL

SYSTEMS NORMAL.

BACK ON  HAMMOND'S QUARTERS -

The raptor has just chewed through.  He squeezes his body into the space

as the bars ELECTRIFY.  Spastically, the raptor jerks back and forth as

the current flows through him.  He can't get out.

Finally, with a WHIMPER, he stops struggling and slides through the

space he created.  With a THUMP, he drops to the floor below.

Ellie, Muldoon, Hammond and the workers look on in shock.

BACK ON  CONTROL ROOM -

Grant cheers and hugs Timmy.  Lex whoops.

                            ELLIE (ON RADIO)

          Ok, we're all right here for now.

    Thanks.

                            GRANT (TO RADIO)

          Don't mention it.  It was Timmy.

                            ELLIE (ON RADIO)

          But there's still one more raptor.  So be

          careful.

Timmy is pushing menus and submenus on the touchscreen now.

COMMUNICATIONS - RADIO - VEHICULAR ...  He gets the one he wants.

He indicates the radio-mike to Grant.

                            TIM

          I think this is the boat.  They called it

          the Queen Anne or something.

Grant grabs the mike.

                            GRANT

          Queen Anne, do you read me?  Queen Anne?

The radio crackles to life.

                            RADIO

          This is the Queen Anne B?  I copy.

          What's up?

                            GRANT

          Report your position!

                            RADIO

          Ah, we're just about to dock here in

          Puntaremas.  Who wants to know?  Please

          identify yourself.

Tim punches the screen which displays FARRELL, F

REDERICK D. (CAPT.)

Grant reads it and nods.  His voice is tough as nails.

                            GRANT

          Try this for identification, Captain

          Farrell.  You are in possession of stolen

          biological materials.  If you don't turn

          that boat around and return to Isla

          Nublar immediately with your contraband

          cargo, you will be found in violation of

          Section 509 of the Uniform Maritime Act,

          you will be subject to revocation of

          license, penalties in excess of fifty

          thousand dollars, and five years in jail.

          Do you copy?

SILENCE.

                            GRANT

          Do you copy, Captain Farrell?

                            RADIO

          I copy.  All ahead stern.

A blinking light on a map indicates that the ship is pulling away from

the harbor.  Grant nods to Timmy who terminates the radio contact.

                            TIMMY

          What's the Uniform Maritime Code?

       GRANT

          Who the hell knows?

Grant and Timmy start to celebrate again when Lex interrupts.

                            LEX

          What good does that do?  To have the ship

          turn around?

Grant turns to her seriously.

                            GRANT

          Well it gives us ten more hours.

              (to Timmy)

          Let's see if we can raise the Costa Rican

          Coast Guard on that thing.

The last raptor smashes into the control room through Hammond's viewing

window.  Glass goes flying.  Grant and kids go running into the hallway.

INT ROTUNDA -

With the raptor in hot pursuit, the kids and Grant come flying.  Tim and

Lex jump over the railing, leaping onto the skeletal display.  Grant

goes for the stairs, jumping down them three at a time.

The raptor goes after the kids, scrambling over the balcony onto the

display.  The kids scamper down the display, knocking paint cans and

tools off the scaffolding as they go.  The raptor is just one beat

behind, and his snar

ling face is splashed with red paint as he chases.

The kids burrow into the rib cage of the Rex.  They break off floating

rubs and hurl them back at the raptor.  The raptor is undeterred,

closing the gap on the kids.

The kids are stuck at the end of the rib cage - it's closed off by the

skeleton and they can't break through.  They're imprisoned.  The raptor

is pushing through the rib cage, bones crackling as it goes.

Grant leaps up the scaffolding, grabs a beam, swings his weight onto it,

and slams it into the T-Rex's neck.  The neck shatters and the massive

head of the T-Rex drops free.

It falls directly onto the last raptor, squashing him flat.  Dead.

                            GRANT

              (grimly)

          And then there were none.

EXT  HELICOPTER PAD - DUSK

Muldoon leads his workers onto an army helicopter.  Two workers carry

Gennaro on a stretcher.  Ellie boards with the kids on each side of her,

holding her hands.

Grant and Hammond walk together, toward the helicopter.

              HAMMOND

          Dr. Grant, don't abandon this beautiful

          place.  I need a man just like you to

          help me get my park back on its feet

          again.  And it will be on its feet again.

                            GRANT

          We have to leave now.

Hammond stops.

                            HAMMOND

          Oh you don't know.  There are wonderful

          plans in the works, sites already

          purchased for Euro-Jurassic and Jurassic

          Japan.

Grant is unimpressed.  He holds a hand out to Hammond.  Hammond tries a

new approach.

                            HAMMOND

          Don't you see I've exalted human

          potential here?  You must see it.  You

          must feel it.  I called back a life form.

          Listen, Dr. Grant, don't go.  Be a part

          of this.  I'm inviting you to do just

          that - let the others go, if they want.

                            GRANT

          You interrupted natural law.  There are

          regulations,

 rules that nature follows

          that make her knowable.

                            HAMMOND

          You mean there are rules that nature

          follows that create barriers to our

          knowledge.

                            GRANT

          Barriers?  Like the seasons?  The earth

          spinning, orbiting the sun?  The entire

          solar system in interlocking motion.  Our

          own beings in biological step with it

          all.  Mr. Hammond, you've disrupted the

          pattern and look what it's done!

                            HAMMOND

          I know what it's done.  I've made

          triceratops and gallimimus and a T-Rex.

          I've got a batch of iguanadons being born

          on Tuesday.  What do you say to that?

                            GRANT

          Don't count on it.  Now get in.

Grant jumps in the copter, holds out a hand to Hammond.

                            GRANT

          You created mutant forms that you further

          mutated to create amus

ement attractions.

          You made biological puppets with

          heartbeats and an early death sentence.

                            HAMMOND

          I created genetic miracles!

                            GRANT

          You created a park to generate a profit-

          making merchandising operation.

                            HAMMOND

          The merchandise is just a by-product.

          Souvenirs for people to reflect on the

          wonder.  You fainted when you saw the

          brachiosaur.  Alan, look, let's not

          argue.  The problem is that my employees

          were not up to par with my dream.  They

          failed me.  The park, I promise you, is

          safe.  It really is.

Grant grabs Hammond's arm, starts to tug.

                            GRANT

          You park is doomed.  Now come with me.

                            HAMMOND

          It is not!  It's blooming!  In the throes

          of labor!  You are one more more negative

          voice in a 

universe of negativity.

          You'll amount to nothing.  You'll be a

          bone-brusher all your life.  I pity you.

Hammond pulls his arm away and strides away from the helicopter just as

the ROTORS START UP.  Hammond's suit whips in the wind.  Grant calls to

him, reaching out his arm.

                            GRANT

          Come back, Mr. Hammond!  It's over!

Hammond keeps walking.  He disappears over a grassy knoll.

Grant's outstretched hand drops to his side when THE ATTACK comes.

With a huge bellow, the T-Rex comes charging at the helicopter.  THE

PILOT screams for all to board as he starts to lift off.

The Rex bites onto the copter skid as the copter tries to escape.  The

copter angles dangerously as the Rex holds on.

Ellie fires a fire-extinguisher into the furious face of the Rex and its

jaws relax.  The copter escapes and starts to climb high into the sky.

The Rex paws after it, then drops down to four legs and gives the copter

a final swipe with its tail.

The tail SWISHES through 

the air and CRACKS against the plexiglass

windshield which fissures and pops.  The pilot struggles to maintain

altitude and manages to keep the craft in the air.

With a ROAR of its own, the copter breaks into the blue sky and soars.

away, leaving an angry T-Rex alone.  Unnoticed by the frustrated Rex,

Hammond slips away and walks into the jungle.

IN THE COPTER -

SLOWLY PAN the exhausted faces of Muldoon and his workers, Lex and Timmy

holding onto each other, and Grant huddles next to Ellie.  He reaches

out and puts an arm around her shoulder.  She reaches up and pulls his

arm close.

                            ELLIE

          They're so beautiful.  They're condemned,

          aren't they?  Even those embryo fragments

          had the same viral contamination.

                            GRANT

          I have a theory.

Ellie looks up in surprise.  She give him a big smile.

                            ELLIE

          You have a theory?

Grant smiles back at her.

                            GRANT

       I think that they could never completely          

          isolate the dinosaur DNA.  There was

          always some microscopic mosquito

          contamination.  But at the molecular

          level, that was enough.  Every dinosaur

          received the same genetic massage, the

          encoding that every mosquito gets to

          terminate life after a season.

                            ELLIE

          So the very process itself was flawed.

She's sad.  Grant hugs her.  Over her shoulder he gives a parting glance

to the island.  A green jewel in a blue sea.  Suddenly it is obliterated

by clouds.

CAMERA PANS AWAY AND SWOOPS DOWN from the copter.  IT CROSSES the sky.

THE CAMERA DESCENDS to Isla Nublar, slowly reveling in its natural

beauty and finally coming to earth in the midst of the verdant jungle.

IN THE JUNGLE - MAGIC HOUR

Hammond slowly climbs a steep hill covered with creeping growth.  He

almost reaches the top when he slips.  He falls to the soft ground and

rolls. He tumbles he

lplessly, rolling and spinning down the sharp drop,

finally coming to a complete stop in a shallow pool of water.  Face

down, his head splashes into the puddle.  No movement. Just the sound of

labored breath.

CAMERA PANS to Hammond's hand, half-submerged in water.  CAMERA MOVES

INTO EXTREME CLOSEUP as a mosquito lands on his hand.

                                         RACK OUT AND DISSOLVE TO:

EXT  OCEAN - NIGHT

The army copter circles lower and lower as it finds the Queen Anne B,

slowly drifting across the moonlit water.

                                                      FADE OUT.

