                                       "BRAVEHEART"

                                            by

                                     Randall Wallace

                                       Early Draft

               FADE IN:

               EXT. THE SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

               Epic beauty: cobalt mountains beneath a glowering purple sky 

               fringed with pink, as if the clouds were a lid too small for 

               the earth; a cascading landscape of boulders shrouded in 

               deep green grass; and the blue lochs, reflecting the sky. We 

               hear a voice, husky, Scottish...

                                     VOICE OVER

                         I will tell you of William Wallace.

               EXT. MACANDREWS FARM - DAY

               A farmhouse and a large barn lie nestled in a Scottish valley. 

               Riding down the roads that lead in from opposite sides are 

               Scottish noblemen in full regalia: eye-popping tartans, 

               sparkling chestplates. Even the horses are draped in scarlet. 

               Behind each nobleman rides a single page boy.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         Historians from England will say I 

                         am a liar. But history is written by 

                         those who have hung heroes.

               Another noble rides in from the opposite side. Two more appear 

               down the road, converging on the barn.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         The King of Scotland had died without 

                         a son, and the king of England, a 

                         cruel pagan known as Edward the 

                         Longshanks, claimed the throne for 

                         himself. Scotlands nobles fought 

                         him, and fought each other, over the 

                         crown. So Longshanks invited them to 

                         talks of truce. No weapons, one page 

                         only.

               The nobles eye each other cautiously, but the truce holds.

               They enter the barn, with their pages...

               EXT. SCOTTISH FARM - DAY

               Nestled in emerald hills are the thatched roof house and 

               barn and outbuildings of a well-run farm. The farmer, MALCOLM 

               WALLACE, and his nineteen-year-old son JOHN, both strong, 

               tough men, are riding away from the farm. They hear hooves 

               behind them and turn to see a boy riding after them.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         Among the farmers of that shire was 

                         Malcolm Wallace, a commoner, with 

                         his own lands and two sons: John...

               We FAVOR JOHN WALLACE, the nineteen-year-old sitting easily 

               on his horse, beside his father...

                                     VOICE OVER

                         ...and William.

               WILLIAM, a skinny eight-year-old riding bareback, catches up 

               to his father and older brother.

                                     FATHER

                         Told ya to stay.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I finished my chores. Where we goin'?

                                     FATHER

                         MacAndrews'. He was supposed to visit 

                         when the truce was over.

               They ride on, over the lush hills.

               EXT. THE MACANDREWS FARM - DAY

               The horses are all gone; the place looks deserted. UP ON THE 

               HILL we see the three Wallaces, looking down.

                                     FATHER

                         Stay here.

               He means William. He and his elder son spur their horses.

               AT THE BARN - DAY

               The Wallaces ride up, looking around.

                                     FATHER

                         MacAndrews!... MacAndrews!?

               Malcolm finds a pitchfork, John the woodpile axe...

               INT. THE BARN

               POV from within as the door opens and a widening block of 

               sunlight illuminates the dusty shadows. Malcolm and John 

               Wallace step in, and are shocked to see...

               POV THE WALLACES

               Hanging from the rafters of the barn are thirty Scottish 

               noblemen and thirty pages, their faces purple and contorted 

               by the strangulation hanging, their tongues protruding.

               Malcolm stabs the pitchfork into the ground in useless anger; 

               John still grips the axe as he follows his father through 

               the hanging bodies of the noblemen to the back row, to see 

               the one man in commoner's dress, like theirs...

                                     FATHER

                         MacAndrews.

               A SHUFFLE; John spins; William has entered the back door.

                                     JOHN

                         William! Get out of here!

                                     WILLIAM

                         Why would MacAndrews make so many 

                         scarecrows?

               Before his father and brother can think of anything to say, 

               William, with a boy's curiosity, touches the spurred foot of 

               the hanged noblemen we first saw riding in. It's too solid; 

               he takes a real look at the face, and suddenly --

                                     WILLIAM

                         R -- real!!!... Ahhhhhgggg!...

               He turns to run, but knocks back into the feet of the hanged 

               man behind him! In blind panic he darts in another direction, 

               and runs into another corpse, and another; the hanged men 

               begin to swing, making it harder for William's father and 

               older brother to fight their way to him.

                                     FATHER

                         William! William!

               Then, worst of all, William sees the pages, boys like himself, 

               hanged in a row behind their masters!

               Finally his father and brother reach William and hug him 

               tight. There in the barn, among the swinging bodies of the 

               hanged nobles, Malcolm Wallace grips his sons.

                                     FATHER

                         Murderin' English bastards.

                                                                    CUT TO:

               EXT. WALLACE FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

               The cottage looks peaceful, the windows glowing yellow into 

               the night. From outside the house we see John rise and close 

               the shutters of the kitchen, where men are gathered. We PAN 

               UP to the upper bedroom window...

               INSIDE THAT BEDROOM

               Young William is in nightmarish sleep. He mumbles in smothered 

               terror; he twitches. We see

               HIS NIGHTMARE

               In the blue-grays of his dream, William stands at the door 

               of the barn, gazing at the hanged knights. We WHIP PAN to 

               their faces, garish, horrible... Then one of the heads moves 

               and its eyes open! William wants to run, but he can't get 

               his body to respond... and the hanging nobleman, his bloated 

               tongue still bursting through his lips, moans...

                                     GHOUL

                         Will--iam...!

               WILLIAM tears himself from sleep; looking around, swallowing 

               back his tears and panic.

               IN THE KITCHEN

               A dozen strong, tough farmers have huddled. Red-headed 

               CAMPBELL, scarred and missing fingers, is stirred up, while 

               his friend MacCLANNOUGH is reluctant.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Wallace is right! We fight 'em!

                                     MACCLANNOUGH

                         Every nobleman who had any will to 

                         fight was at that meeting.

                                     MALCOLM WALLACE

                         So it's up to us! We show them we 

                         won't lie down to be their slaves!

                                     MACCLANNOUGH

                         We can't beat an army, not with the 

                         fifty farmers we can raise!

                                     MALCOLM WALLACE

                         We don't have to beat 'em, just fight 

                         'em. To show 'em we're not dogs, but 

                         men.

               Young Wallace has snuck down and is eavesdropping from the 

               stairs. He sees his father drip his finger into a jug of 

               whiskey and use the wet finger to draw on the tabletop.

                                     MALCOLM WALLACE

                         They have a camp here. We attack 

                         them at sunset tomorrow. Give us all 

                         night to run home.

               EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY

               Malcolm and John have saddled horses; they are checking the 

               short swords they've tucked into grain sacks when William 

               comes out of the barn with his own horse.

                                     MALCOLM

                         William, you're staying here.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I can fight.

               These words from his youngest son make Malcolm pause, and 

               kneel, to look into William's eyes.

                                     MALCOLM

                         Aye. But it's our wits that make us 

                         men. I love ya, boy. You stay.

               Malcolm and John mount their horses and ride away, leaving 

               William looking forlorn. They wave; he waves back.

               EXT SCOTTISH HILLS, NEAR THE WALLACE FARM - DAY

               It's strangely quiet, until William and his friend HAMISH 

               CAMPBELL, a red-headed like his father, race up the hillside 

               and duck in among a grove of trees. Breathless, gasping, 

               they press their backs to the tree bark. William peers around 

               a tree, then shrinks back and whispers...

                                     WILLIAM

                         They're coming!

                                     HAMISH

                         How many?

                                     WILLIAM

                         Three, maybe more!

                                     HAMISH

                         Armed?

                                     WILLIAM

                         They're English soldiers, ain't they?

                                     HAMISH

                         With your father and brother gone, 

                         they'll kill us and burn the farm!

                                     WILLIAM

                         It's up to us, Hamish!

               Hamish leans forward for a look, but William pulls him back.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Not yet! Here he comes, be ready!

               They wait; heavy FOOTSTEPS. Then from around the edge of the 

               grove three enormous, ugly hogs appear. The boys hurling 

               rotten eggs. The eggs slap the snouts of the pigs, who scatter 

               as the boys charge, howling. We PULL BACK... as the sun goes 

               down on their play.

               EXT. THE WALLACE HOUSE - SUNDOWN

               The boys walk toward the house, beneath a lavender sky.

                                     HAMISH

                         Wanna stay with me tonight?

                                     WILLIAM

                         I wanna have supper waitin'.

                                     HAMISH

                         We'll get those English pigs tomorrow.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Aye, we'll get 'em.

               EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

               William's face appears at the window, looking toward

               THE DISTANT HILLS

               of trees and heather, where there is no sign of life.

               INT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT

               William has cooked stew in a pot, and now spoons up two 

               steaming bowls full and sets them out on the table. But he 

               is only hoping. He looks out the window again; he is still 

               all alone. So he leaves a candle burning on the table beside 

               the stew, and moves up the stairs.

               EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAWN

               The house is silent, fog rolling around it in the dawn.

               INT. FARMHOUSE - DAWN

               William has been awake all night, afraid to sleep. He rises, 

               and in QUICK CUTS: he dresses; he moves down the hall, stops 

               at the door of his father's bedroom and sees the undisturbed 

               bed. He moves on, passing the door of his brother's room, 

               also unrumpled.

               IN THE KITCHEN

               He finds the two cold bowls of stew, beside the exhausted 

               candle. He spoons up his own cold porridge, and eats alone.

               EXT. HOUSE - DAY

               William is in the barn loft, shoveling corn down to feed the 

               hogs, while he glimpses something coming.

               THE BOY'S POV

               An ox cart is coming down the curving lane. Its driver is 

               Campbell, with MacClannough walking behind it. The farmers 

               glance up at William, their faces grim...

               From his perch in the loft, William sees that the neighbors 

               have brought: the bodies of his father and brother. The cart 

               stops; Campbell, with a bandage around his left hand where 

               more of his fingers are now missing, studies the back of the 

               ox, as if it could tell him how to break such news. The butt 

               of the ox seems to tell him to be matter-of-fact.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         William... Come down here, lad.

               William looks away, he takes quick breaths, he looks back... 

               but the bodies are still there.

               EXT. HOUSE - DAY

               It's now surrounded by horses, wagons, and neighbors. The 

               undertaker arrives in his hearse.

               INT. THE SHED - DAY

               On a table the undertaker has laid out the bodies and is 

               preparing them. Cloths around the lower jaw and top of the 

               head bind their mouths shut; pennies cover their eyes.

               Softly, William enters the shed, drawn to his father and 

               brother. Campbell follows him in, wanting to stop him -- but 

               what can he say now? The undertaker goes on with his work.

               William approaches the table; the bodies don't look real to 

               him. He sees the wounds. The dried blood.

               The undertake pours water from a bowl and scrubs off the 

               blood. But the wounds remain.

               EXT. GRAVESIDE - DAY

               CLOSE on a grave, with a headstone marked ANNE WALLACE. We 

               INCLUDE the two new graves freshly dug beside it, and see 

               the mourners gathered before them. The sight of the boy, 

               standing alone in front of the graves of his dead mother, as 

               the bodies of his father and brother are lowered with ropes 

               into the ground beside her, has all of the neighbors shaken.

               The local parish PRIEST drones mechanically in Latin.

               The farmers who were secretly gathered in Malcolm Wallace's 

               kitchen the previous night are now glancing at William; but 

               no one is anxious to adopt a grieving, a rebellious boy.

               Behind MacClannough are his wife and two daughters; his 

               youngest is barely four, not half William's age; she's a 

               beautiful girl with long auburn hair, and she clings to her 

               own mother's hand, as if the open graves are the mouths of 

               death and might suck her parents in too.

                                     PRIEST

                         ...Restare in pacem eternis, Amen.

               With the final Amen, the neighbors drift from the graveside, 

               pulling their Children along, to give William a last moment 

               of private grief before the grave diggers cover the bodies.

               The boy stands alone over the open graves, his heart so 

               shattered that he can scarcely cry; a single tear makes its 

               way down his face. And the tiny girl feels for William in a 

               way that the adults cannot. From the ground she pulls a 

               Scottish thistle, moves to the softly weeping William and 

               places the beautiful wild blossom in his hand.

               William looks up and their young eyes meet; her sad blue 

               eyes hold William's as the grave diggers cover the bodies.

               Then a lone, mounted figure appears at the crest of the hill 

               above them. Tall, thin and angular, in black clerical garb, 

               he looks like the grim reaper.

               The girl hurries back to her mother's side; everyone watches 

               in silence as the figure rides down to them. He is ARGYLE 

               WALLACE. He looks like a human buzzard, his face craggy, 

               permanently furious.

                                     PRIEST

                         You must be the relative of the 

                         deceased... William, this is your 

                         Uncle Argyle.

               Argyle glowers at the man, dismounts, and glares at William.

               William stares up at this frightening figure. They are 

               interrupted by the ominous sound of approaching horses; a 

               dozen mounted English soldiers, armed with lances, are 

               approaching. Argyle rattles to the priest...

                                     ARGYLE

                         You were wise to hurry.

               The soldiers ride right in among the mourners and stare down 

               from their saddles, haughty, menacing, their LEADER brusque.

                                     LEADER

                         Someone dead from this household?

                                     ARGYLE

                         We just had a funeral, isn't that 

                         what it means in England as well?

                                     LEADER

                         What it means in England -- and in 

                         Scotland too -- is that rebels have 

                         forfeited their lands. We were 

                         ambushed last night. But the Scots 

                         dragged their dead away.

                                     ARGYLE

                         My brother and nephew perished two 

                         days ago, when their hay cart turned 

                         over.

                                     LEADER

                         Then we'll just have a peek at the 

                         wounds.

                              (to his men)

                         Dig 'em up!

                                     ARGYLE

                         They've been sanctified and buried 

                         in the holy rites of God's church, 

                         and any hand that disturbs them now 

                         takes on eternal damnation. So please -- 

                         do it.

               Outmaneuvered, the leader reins his horse away. Several of 

               the farmers spit on the ground. Argyle glares at them.

                                     ARGYLE

                         Funeral's over. Go home.

               INT. THE KITCHEN - NIGHT

               William and Argyle are sitting at the table, eating. Argyle 

               has laid out a proper meal, with exact place settings.

                                     ARGYLE

                         Not that spoon, that one's for soup. 

                         Dip away from you. And don't slurp.

               Argyle sits down and begins to dine with the boy.

                                     ARGYLE

                         We'll sleep here tonight. You'll 

                         come home with me. We'll let the 

                         house, and the lands too; plenty of 

                         willing neighbors.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I don't want to leave.

                                     ARGYLE

                         Didn't want your father to die either, 

                         did ya? But it happened.

               Argyle pushes his food away; he has no appetite now.

                                     ARGYLE

                         Did the priest say anything about 

                         the Resurrection? Or was it all about 

                         Judgment?

                                     WILLIAM

                         It was in Latin, sir.

                                     ARGYLE

                         Non loquis Latinum? You don't speak 

                         Latin? We have to fix that, won't 

                         we?

                              (beat)

                         Did he give the poetic benediction? 

                         The Lord bless thee and keep thee? 

                         Patris Benefactum et --

                              (beat)

                         ...It was Malcolm's favorite.

               INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

               Argyle knows nothing about tucking a boy in bed; he stands 

               awkwardly idle as William scrubs his face at the washstand 

               and crawls into bed.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Good night, Uncle.

               Argyle grunts and starts out. Then he stops, turns back, 

               leans down over William... and with great tenderness the 

               grizzled old uncle kisses his nephew on his hair.

               INT. THE KITCHEN - NIGHT

               Argyle sits by the hearth, staring at the embers. He holds 

               the huge broadsword that belonged to his brother. He looks 

               at the handle, like a cross. He whispers...

                                     ARGYLE

                         "The Lord bless thee and keep thee..."

               Tears of grief spill down the old man's cheeks.

               INT. THE HANGING BARN - IN WILLIAM'S DREAM

               Once again the boy stands in the doorway of the barn, looking 

               at the garish, hanged faces in his nightmare. Then a mangled 

               hand comes from behind him and grasps his shoulder, William 

               gasps, but the hand holds him gently. He turns to see his 

               father, and his brother! They are wounded, bloody, but they 

               smile at him; they're alive! Weeping in joy, William reaches 

               to hug them, but his father stretches forth a forbidding 

               hand.

               William keeps reaching out helplessly. His father and brother 

               move past him to the hanged knights. Two empty nooses are 

               there. Before the boy's weeping eyes they put their heads 

               into the nooses, and hoist themselves up.

               William's grief explodes; his tears erupt and

               HE WAKES IN HIS BEDROOM

               tears flooding down his face. A dream! Still upset, still 

               grieving, he gets up and goes looking for his uncle.

               INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

               William moves down to the room where his uncle would be 

               sleeping. He opens the door. The bed has been slept in -- 

               but his uncle is not there. He moves downstairs to

               THE KITCHEN

               But his uncle is not there either. Then William hears a 

               strange, haunting sound-distant, carried by the wind. He 

               moves to the window and sees only moonlight. He opens the 

               window and hears it more clearly: bagpipes. William lights a 

               candle and throws open the door. Wind rushes in, blowing out 

               his candle. But he hears the pipes, louder in the wind.

               EXT. WALLACE HOUSE - NIGHT

               William is barefoot and in only his nightshirt; but the sound 

               of the pipes is growing louder. He moves through the 

               moonlight, drawn toward -- the graveyard! He stops as he 

               realizes this, then forces himself on.

               EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT

               William moves to the top of the hill where his ancestors are 

               buried, and discovers a haunting scene: two dozen men, the 

               farmer/warriors of his neighborhood, are gathered in kilts -- 

               and among them, a core of bagpipers. The pipes wail an ancient 

               Scottish dirge, a tune of grief and redemption, a melody 

               known to us as "Amazing Grace." Uncle Argyle has heard them 

               and walked out too; he stands at the fringes of the 

               torchlight, still holding the massive broadsword. He glances 

               down, noticing William as the boy moves up beside him. William 

               whispers...

                                     WILLIAM

                         What are they doing?

                                     ARGYLE

                         Saying goodbye in their own way -- 

                         in outlawed tartans, with outlawed 

                         pipes, playing outlawed tunes.

               The farmers file by the graveside, crossing themselves, each 

               whispering his own private prayer. Argyle whispers, half to 

               William, and half to himself...

                                     ARGYLE

                         Your Daddy and I, we saw our own 

                         father buried like this, dead from 

                         fighting the English.

               William takes the sword from his uncle, and tries to lift 

               it.

               Slowly, Argyle takes the sword back.

                                     ARGYLE

                         First learn to use this.

               He taps William on the temple with the tip of his finger.

                                     ARGYLE

                         Then I will teach you to use this.

               With an expert's easy fluidity, he lifts the huge sword. It 

               glistens in the torchlight. The music plays, the notes hanging 

               in the air, swirling in the Scottish breeze as if rising 

               towards the stars...

               EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY

               William and his uncle ride off in a farm wagon. William has 

               a bundle of clothes in his lap, and glances at his uncle as 

               if afraid of his disapproval if he looks back. But he does 

               glance back just once, to see the deserted farmhouse.

                                                               DISSOLVE TO:

               INT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - ROYAL WEDDING - DAY

               Amid the scarlet and ermine robes of officiating lords, with 

               gemstones sparkling everywhere, we hear...

                                     VOICE OVER

                         Twelve years later, Longshanks 

                         supervised the wedding of his eldest 

                         son, also named Edward, who would 

                         succeed him to the throne.

               LONGSHANKS, King of England, stands in the jeweled light of 

               the ancient Abbey. Known as Longshanks because of the spindly 

               legs that make him almost seven feet tall, he has a hawk's 

               nose and a snake's eyes, punctuating a face of distinct 

               cruelty. Historians of his day considered him and the line 

               of Plantagenets from which he came to be devil worshipers.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         As bride for his son, Longshanks had 

                         chosen a relative of his rival, the 

                         king of France.

               GENEVIEVE, a nineteen-year-old virgin of stupendous beauty 

               moves down the aisle, the light in her face outshining her 

               blindingly white wedding gown. As she reaches the altar her 

               hands tremble, but she maintains her poise and control.

               She looks toward EDWARD, Prince of Wales. Pampered young men 

               surround him as his retinue. He takes her hand coldly and 

               goes through the ceremony under his father's stare.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         It was widely whispered that for the 

                         Princess to conceive, Longshanks 

                         would have to do the honors himself. 

                         That may have been what he had in 

                         mind all along.

               The ceremony concluding, attendants lift back the bride's 

               veil. Her wedding day, the ultimate moment -- and Prince 

               Edward ignores her, to turn back to his friends. But prompted 

               by one of the sour lords, he leans over and pecks his new 

               Princess on the cheek. For an instant, we see in her eyes 

               that her heart is dying. But she keeps her poise.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         Having seen to his obligations to 

                         provide for a successor, Longshanks 

                         set about his fondest business -- to 

                         crush Scotland, and turn his power 

                         against France...

               CLOSE - A MAP OF THE BRITISH ISLES

               Longshanks' narrow finger jabs Scotland.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Scotland! Scot-land!

               We are in the --

               INT. ROYAL ENGLISH PALACE - DAY

               Longshanks is being listened to by his advisors, all in the 

               outrageous splendor of royal military dress, and all deathly 

               afraid of him.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         The French will grovel to anyone 

                         with strength! But how will they 

                         credit our strength when we cannot 

                         rule the whole of our own island?!

               He punches the map, then sees the Princess enter softly.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Where is my son?

                                     PRINCESS

                         Your pardon, M'lord, he asked me to 

                         come in his stead.

               Longshanks' eyes expand in fury; it is frightening to see.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         I sent for him -- and the little 

                         coward send you?!

                                     PRINCESS

                         Shall I leave, M'lord?

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         If he wants his queen to rule, then 

                         you stay and learn how! I will deal 

                         with him.

               He spins back toward his generals. Ignored, the princess 

               settles silently onto the cushions of the window seat.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Nobles are the key to the Scottish 

                         door. Grant their nobles land here 

                         in England. Give our own nobles 

                         estates in the north. Make them too 

                         greedy to oppose us.

               One OLD ADVISOR speaks up hesitantly.

                                     OLD ADVISOR

                         Sire... Our nobles will be reluctant 

                         to relocate. New lands mean new taxes, 

                         and they are taxed already for our 

                         war in France.

               Longshanks glares at him, but takes the point. The wheels 

               grind in his brain; his dark eyes falling on the Princess, 

               he is inspired.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Perhaps it's time to reinstitute an 

                         old custom. Grant them prima noctes, 

                         "First night." When any common girl 

                         inhabiting their lands is married, 

                         our lords shall have sexual rights 

                         to her on the night of her wedding. 

                         That should fetch just the kind of 

                         lords we want in Scotland.

               INT. PRINCE EDWARD'S ROYAL APARTMENTS - DAY

               The prince and a muscular young friend, PHILLIP, are stripped 

               to the waist and fencing. They pay no attention to the

               KNOCK, or to the Princess as she enters. She watches them -- 

               they are dancing more than fencing. Edward loses his sword; 

               it clatters to the polished floor. He looks up at his wife, 

               as if angry at her for having seen his clumsiness.

                                     EDWARD

                         What is it?!

                                     PRINCESS

                         You directed me to report to you the 

                         moment the king's conference was 

                         ended.

                                     EDWARD

                         So I did! And what was so important 

                         about it?

                                     PRINCESS

                         Scotland. He intends --

               But Edward and his friend are fencing again, the clanging of 

               their blunted swords so loud that she can't hear herself.

                                     PRINCESS

                         He intends to grant --

               Edward loses his weapon again, and whirls on her.

                                     EDWARD

                         Shut up, would you! How can I 

                         concentrate?!

                                     PRINCESS

                         ...His majesty was quite keen that 

                         you should understand --

                                     EDWARD

                         All so very boring! He wants me to 

                         learn to fight too, so let me do it!

               For an instant, anger flares into her eyes. She glances at 

               Edward, and at the young man with him, then lowers her eyes 

               and starts to back out. But Edward has noticed.

                                     EDWARD

                         Stop there.

               She stops, but does not raise her eyes.

                                     EDWARD

                         Do you disapprove of Phillip?

               He lifts his hand and draws his friend Phillip to his side.

               Still the Princess does not lift her eyes.

                                     PRINCESS

                              (barely audible)

                         No, M'lord.

                                     EDWARD

                         Look at me. I said LOOK AT ME!

               She lifts her eyes. But she could not brace herself enough 

               for what she sees: Edward nuzzling Phillip, the prince's 

               bare chest to his muscular friend's bare back, both men 

               glistening with sweat and sexual excitement.

               The Princess's eyes quiver... but she does not look away.

                                     EDWARD

                         Now, my flower, do you understand?

                                     PRINCESS

                         Yes. I had thought that... I was 

                         loathsome to you. Perhaps I am. If I 

                         may be excused, M'lord.

                                     EDWARD

                         You may.

               She starts to leave, as quietly as she came. But her husband 

               calls after her.

                                     EDWARD

                         Don't worry, m'Lady, it is my royal 

                         responsibility to breed. And I assure 

                         you, when the time comes, I shall... 

                         manage.

               She closes the door softly, on her husband and his lover.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         Now in Edinburgh were gathered the 

                         council of Scottish nobles...

               ESTABLISHING COUNCIL - DAY

               The picturesque heart of Scotland, with its CASTLE on a fairy 

               tale plateau above the Firth of Forth.

               INT. EDINBURGH CASTLE - DAY

               The nobles are gathered around a huge table. They rise at 

               the entrance of young ROBERT THE BRUCE, a handsome young 

               man, full of intelligence and power.

                                     VOICE OVER

                         Among these was Robert, the 17th 

                         Earl of Bruce, a leading contender 

                         for the crown of Scotland.

               Robert strides to his seat in the center of the table, and 

               the others settle in respectfully. MORNAY, another young 

               warrior, gives him a bow, as does CRAIG, a grizzled noble.

                                     CRAIG

                         Young Robert, we are honored --

                                     ROBERT

                         My father hears that Longshanks has 

                         granted prima noctes.

                                     CRAIG

                         Clearly meant to draw more of his 

                         supporters here.

                                     MORNAY

                         The Balliol clan has endorsed the 

                         right, licking Longshanks' boots so 

                         he will support their claim to the 

                         throne. If we make a show of 

                         opposition, the commoners will favor 

                         us.

                                     ROBERT

                         It is too soon to step out alone. My 

                         father believes we must lull 

                         Longshanks into confidence, by neither 

                         supporting his decree nor opposing 

                         it.

                                     CRAIG

                         A wise plan. And how is your father? 

                         We have missed him at the council.

                                     ROBERT

                         He strained his leg so that it pains 

                         him to ride. But he sends his 

                         greetings -- and says that I speak 

                         for all the Bruces. And for Scotland.

               EXT. SCOTTISH VILLAGE, AT THE EDGE OF TOWN - DAY

               Flutes and dancing; laughter and garlands; village families 

               have gathered for a wedding celebration -- we see the happy 

               bride and groom. Farmers cart in fresh bread and hoops of 

               cheese; villagers arrive with casks of beer or strings of 

               smoked fish.

               And watching the people are ubiquitous English soldiers, 

               battlescarred veterans with missing eyes and ears.

               Riding along the road comes William Wallace. Grown now, a 

               man. He sits his horse as if born there, his back straight, 

               his hands relaxed on the reins. He has a look of lean, rippled 

               power. He looks dangerous.

               And the soldiers notice him, nudging each other as he passes.

               He carries a dead wild goose hanging across his saddle; he 

               stops his horse at the edge of the clearing and surveys the 

               scene. Farmers are roasting a pig; women are comparing 

               handiwork; young men are tossing huge stones in the 

               traditional Highland games -- and everyone is noticing 

               William's arrival, especially the farm women with daughters 

               of marriageable age.

               Among those watching William arrive is Campbell, grown older 

               now; and with his old rebel friend, MacClannough. William 

               dismounts and ties his horse to a willow. One of the English 

               SOLDIERS shoves William from behind.

                                     SOLDIER

                         Hey boy! You hunt this bird?

               William's eyes fix themselves on the soldier.

                                     SOLDIER

                         It's against the law for Scots to 

                         own bows. You shot this bird?

               His buddies, enjoying their role as intimidators, grab the 

               bird and begin to search it for evidence.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I hit it in the head. With a rock.

               They don't believe that -- but they can't find any puncture 

               wound on the bird. William reaches his hand out for the return 

               of the bird. The soldiers drop it onto the ground.

               Slowly, William picks it up, and heads into the clearing.

               The farmers watch him come.

               Among those noticing William's arrival, but pretending not 

               to, is MARION MacCLANNOUGH, grown now into a stunning young 

               woman; her long auburn hair reminds us of those years long 

               ago; she wears it the same way, straight and full down her 

               back. Her dress is plain, like the grass that surrounds a 

               wildflower. She's the most beautiful girl in the village, 

               maybe in all of Scotland, and the soldiers who hassled William 

               notice her too.

               William reaches the food table and contributes his goose to 

               the feast. FARM WOMEN eye him; he nodes to one.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Miz MacDougal. You look well.

                                     FARM WOMAN

                         ...William? It's William Wallace, 

                         back home! -- Have you met my 

                         daughter?

               The daughter mentioned is missing teeth. William nods to 

               her. It's impossible for him to giver her a smile as bright 

               as her hopes, and she lowers her head in disappointment. But 

               then raises her face in surprise as William takes her hand 

               and gives her a respectful bow.

               He moves away from the table, passing through the crowd like 

               a stranger. Then he glances toward the knot of girls. He 

               sees Marion. She sees him, then looks away. Do they remember 

               each other? He moves toward her; she is shy, her eyes 

               downcast, but then she raises them and looks at him.

               They move closer and closer together. Just as they are about 

               to reach each other, a huge round stone THUMPS to the earth 

               at Williams' feet.

               He looks up to see one of Marion's suitors -- the broad, 

               muscled young man who has just tossed the stone in William's 

               way. Now everybody's looking to see how William will handle 

               the challenge. He tries to move around, but the guy cuts him 

               off. Then William thinks he recognizes the big red-head.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Hamish?

               It is his old friend, but Hamish won't admit it, or be put 

               off from the challenge. He points to the huge stone.

                                     HAMISH

                         Test of manhood.

                                     WILLIAM

                         You win.

                                     HAMISH

                              (blocks him)

                         Call it a test of soldiery, then. 

                         The English won't let us train with 

                         weapons, so we train with stones.

                                     WILLIAM

                         The test of a soldier is not in his 

                         arm. It's here.

               He taps his temple. Hamish stretches out his hand, as if to 

               show William something in his palm.

                                     HAMISH

                         No. It's here.

               With a sudden movement, he slams his fist into William's 

               jaw, dropping him. A few men move to interfere, but Campbell, 

               MacClannough, and the other farmers who are the true leaders 

               here, stop their neighbors from interrupting. Hamish stands 

               over William, waiting for him to get up.

                                     WILLIAM

                         A contest, then.

               William stands and hoists the huge stone, eighteen inches in 

               diameter. Straining with the effort, he lugs the stone to 

               the line scratched in the rocky field. Beyond the line are 

               the muddy dents from previous tosses. William takes a run 

               and heaves the stone. It flies past the other marks in the 

               field; people are impressed. William looks at Hamish.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I still say this is no test. A 

                         catapult can throw a stone farther 

                         than a man can.

                                     HAMISH

                         That depends on the man.

               Hamish walks out, lifts the stone, and lugs it back to the 

               line. He takes a run and heaves with a great groan! The stone 

               flies, passing William's mark by a couple of feet.

               People laugh and whistle. William nods, impressed.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Can you do it when it matters? As it 

                         matters in battle? Could you crush a 

                         man with that throw?

                                     HAMISH

                         I could crush you like a roach.

               William walks to the dent made by Hamish's throw.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Then do it. Come, do it.

               Hamish scowls at William, at everybody watching. He lifts 

               the stone and carries it back to the line. William stands 

               calmly. Hamish backs up for his run. William yawns.

                                     HAMISH

                         You'll move

                                     WILLIAM

                         I will not.

               Hamish backs up a few more feet, for a longer run.

                                     FARMER STEWART

                         That's not fair!

                                     CAMPBELL

                         He's tired, he should get a longer 

                         run.

               William seems completely unafraid. He leans down, picks up a 

               small smooth stone and tosses it up in the air casually.

               Stung by this show of calm, Hamish takes furious run, and 

               heaves! The stone flies through the air, just misses William's 

               head, and buries itself halfway into the earth behind him. 

               William never flinches. The people cheer.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Brave show!

               Hamish is miffed; it's like William won.

                                     HAMISH

                         I threw longer than last time!

                                     CAMPBELL

                         An ox is strong, but not clever.

                                     HAMISH

                         An ox is stupid enough to just stand 

                         in one place.

                                     WILLIAM

                         That's not the point.

               William turns, walks double the distance Hamish threw, and 

               turns and hurls the rock he holds! It whistles through the 

               air, hits Hamish in the forehead, and drops him like a shot.

                                     WILLIAM

                         That is.

               Everybody cheers and laughs! They surround William.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         A fine display, young Wallace!

               William takes a tankard of ale from a farmer, walks over and 

               tosses the cold liquid into Hamish's face; he wakes, and, 

               his eyes uncrossing, accepts William's hand, pulling him up.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Good to see you again.

                                     HAMISH

                         I should'a remembered the eggs.

               Grinning, they embrace. MUSIC plays, the dancing begins.

               William walks to the knot of young ladies... but passes 

               Marion, and moves to the girl with the missing teeth.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Would you honor me with a dance?

               She's thrilled to accept; they begin to dance.

                                     GIRL

                         You've taken over your father's farm?

                              (beat)

                         They say he died long ago. Fighting 

                         the English.

                                     WILLIAM

                         He died in an accident, with my 

                         brother. Their cart turned over.

               The musicians interrupt their playing; a group of heavily 

               armed horsemen, with banners and flying colors, ride up, 

               reining their horses into the middle of the celebration. In 

               the middle of the group is an English NOBLEMAN; he is gray, 

               in his fifties, and stops in front of the BRIDE and groom.

                                     NOBLEMAN

                         I have come to claim the right of 

                         prima noctes. As the lord of these 

                         lands, I will bless this marriage by 

                         taking the bride into my bed on the 

                         first night of her union.

               Stewart, father of the BRIDE, lunges forward.

                                     STEWART

                         No, by God!

               The horsemen point their lances at the unarmed Scots -- who 

               see that the English soldiers from the village have moved to 

               the edge of the gathering, as if to dare any resistance.

                                     NOBLEMAN

                         It is my noble right.

               Even unarmed, Stewart is about to attack -- but the bride 

               intervenes. She grabs her father and whispers to him. She 

               moves to her husband and does the same. Holding back tears, 

               she allows herself to be pulled up behind one of the horsemen. 

               Marion MacClannough is looking on, sobered by her friend's 

               courage and sickened by her fate -- and Marion is even more 

               unsettled as she notices that one of the soldiers, a 

               particularly nasty looking brute with a scarred face, is 

               leering at her. William Wallace sees this too.

               The noble and his escorts ride away, and as they do it begins 

               to rain. The celebration destroyed, the Scots gather the 

               food and disperse to their homes. But Wallace remains, 

               standing in the downpour, keeping his thoughts to himself.

               EXT. THE WALLACE FARMHOUSE - MAGIC HOUR

               The farmhouse looks lonely and forlorn. William stands at 

               the open door, and gazes out at the rain; it leaks on him, 

               through his roof; he doesn't seem to notice.

               EXT. THE MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - MAGIC HOUR

               A thatched cottage, lit with a cozy fire, beneath the rain.

               A hand KNOCKS on the door, and MacClannough opens it to find 

               William, on a horse! MacClannough frowns.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Good evening, sir. May I speak with 

                         your daughter?

               Mrs. MacClannough shoulders up beside her husband, and Marion 

               appears behind her scowling parents.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Marion... Would you like to go for a 

                         ride on this fine evening?

                                     MOTHER

                         The boy's insane!

                                     WILLIAM

                         It's good Scottish weather, Madam, 

                         the rain is fallin' straight down.

                                     MOTHER

                         She absolutely may not, she'll -- 

                         Marion!

               Marion has grabbed a cloak off the back of the door; she 

               runs out to hop up behind William, and they gallop away.

               THE RIDE - MAGIC HOUR

               William and Marion race along the heather, up and down hills, 

               through swollen streams. The rain stops, as the sun sets; 

               the Scottish mists lift, revealing stunning natural beauty.

               William stops the horse and they look out over it all 

               together. He speaks, without turning to face her.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Your father doesn't like me, does 

                         he?

                                     MARION

                         It's not you. He dislikes that you're 

                         a Wallace. He just says... the 

                         Wallaces don't seem to live for very 

                         long.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Thank you for accepting.

                                     MARION

                         Thank you for inviting.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I'll invite you again, but your mother 

                         thinks I'm crazy.

                                     MARION

                         You are. And I'll come again.

               He lingers; he wants to say something, or maybe he just 

               doesn't want the moment to end. Finally he spurs the horse.

               EXT. THE MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - NIGHT

               They reach the door. William hops off the horse and reaches 

               up to help her down the moment she touches the ground, they 

               look into each other's eyes... but the door is snatched open 

               so quickly by her mother that there is not time for a kiss.

                                     MOTHER

                         Marion, come in!

               He walks her closer to the door. They turn and look at each 

               other again. She waits for him to kiss her...

                                     MOTHER

                         Marion, come in!

               She still hesitates; he isn't going to kiss her. She starts 

               in, but he grabs her hand. And into it he puts something he 

               has taken from his pocket; it is wrapped in flannel. He hops 

               on his horse, glances at her, and gallops away.

               She stands in the open doorway; she looks down at what he 

               left her. She unwraps the flannel; it is a dried thistle, 

               the one she gave him years before.

               EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY

               William is re-thatching the roof of his barn, when he hears 

               riders approaching, and looks down to see that it is 

               MacClannough, backed by Campbell and Hamish. Uh-oh.

                                     MACCLANNOUGH

                         Young Wallace --

                                     WILLIAM

                         Sir, I know it was strange of me to 

                         invite Marion to ride last night. I 

                         assure you, I --

                                     CAMPBELL

                         MacClannough's daughter is another 

                         matter. We come to fetch you to a 

                         meeting.

                                     WILLIAM

                         What kind of meeting?

                                     CAMPBELL

                         The secret kind.

               William goes back to repairing his roof.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Your father was a fighter. And a 

                         patriot.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I know who my father was. I came 

                         back home to raise crops. And, God 

                         willing, a family. If I can live in 

                         peace, I will.

               Campbell shakes his head and reins his horse away, with 

               Hamish. MacClannough lingers.

                                     MACCLANNOUGH

                         If you can keep your intention to 

                         stay out of the troubles, you may 

                         court my daughter. If you break your 

                         intention, I'll kill you.

               MacClannough rides away. William sits down on the roof, and 

               looks out at the graves of his father and brother.

               EXT. MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - NIGHT

               Outside the half-timbered house, William stands in the shadows 

               of moonlight and tosses a pebble against the wooden upper 

               window. Marion opens the shutters and slips out onto the 

               vines, dropping into William's arms.

               Giggling, suppressing laughter, they run to the trees...

               SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS - NIGHT

               Hand in hand through the heather they run, silhouettes along 

               a ridge, their breath blowing silver clouds in the moonlight, 

               the Scottish wind whipping through their hair.

               They stop at a grove at the edge of a precipice, overlooking 

               a loch gleaming in the moonlight. So beautiful it's sacred.

                                     MARION

                         You've been here before?

                                     WILLIAM

                         Some nights. I have dreams. Mostly 

                         dreams I don't want. I started riding 

                         at night to fill up my mind so that 

                         when I did sleep I'd dream only of 

                         the ride and the adventure.

                                     MARION

                         Did it work?

                                     WILLIAM

                         No. You don't choose your dreams. 

                         Your dreams choose you.

               He looks at her. They kiss suddenly, so long and hard that 

               they tumble into the heather, rolling, devouring each other.

               Through their passion...

                                     WILLIAM

                         I want... to marry you!

                                     MARION

                         I... accept your proposal!

                                     WILLIAM

                         I'm not just saying it!

                                     MARION

                         Nor I!

                                     WILLIAM

                         But I won't give you up to any 

                         nobleman.

                                     MARION

                              (stopping)

                         You scare me.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I don't want to scare you. I want to 

                         be yours, and you mine. Every night 

                         like this one.

                                     MARION

                         This night is too beautiful to have 

                         again.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I will be with you, like this. 

                         Forever.

               They kiss again...

               EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - DAY

               Marion moves through the market. English soldiers admire her 

               as she walks. She stops, looking at white lace and cloth.

               William casually passes, poking a note in her basket. Subtly 

               she withdraws his note, and reads:

               INSERT - HIS NOTE

               Tonight. By the trees.

               EXT. MARION'S HOUSE - NIGHT

               Marion slips out of the house and runs to the trees, where 

               William waits with horses. She fetches a bundle she's stashed 

               in the crook of a tree, and they mount and ride off.

               EXT. RUINS OF AN ANCIENT CHURCH - NIGHT

               The church is at the base of the precipice, beside the loch.

               INT. THE CHURCH - NIGHT

               This ancient Gaelic place of worship has been destroyed by 

               the occupying army, and yet it looks devoutly holy this way, 

               lit only by candles and moonlight through the open roof. The 

               village PRIEST whom we saw at the wedding celebration is 

               waiting at the altar. Marion steps into the confessional, as 

               William moves to the altar and kneels in prayer.

               Marion emerges; she's changed into the wedding dress she 

               made from the cloth she bought. William stands and watches 

               her float down the aisle; his whole life was worth this 

               moment.

               Together, the two lovers turn to the priest.

                                     PRIEST

                         You have come to pledge, each to the 

                         other, before Almighty God.

               From within his shirt, William withdraws a strip of cloth 

               woven in his family tartan. He and Marion each lift a hand 

               to the priest, and he binds their wrists with the cloth.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I will love you my whole life. You 

                         and no other.

               From her dress she takes a handmade handkerchief, embroidered 

               with a thistle to look like the one she first gave him those 

               years ago.

                                     MARION

                         And I you. You and no other. Forever.

               The Priest waits for them to go on, but neither can; they're 

               too taken with emotion, looking at each other. The Priest 

               intones holy phrases...

                                     PRIEST

                         Agus bhayd lauch... The Lord bless 

                         and keep thy love, now and forever.

               The lovers kiss. As they break their embrace, a figure 

               carrying something dark and spiky appears at the broken door 

               of the church, and William spins as if to attack, but the 

               Priest catches his arm; they see the man carries bagpipes.

                                     PRIEST

                         I trust him -- or I'd'a killed him 

                         me'self. A weddin' needs pipes.

               The piper begins to play, and the tune from his primitive 

               chanter is wispy, ethereal, beautiful. The lovers look into 

               each other's eyes, as the single melody of the pipes merges 

               into a swell of music, UNDERSCORING MONTAGE

               William and Marion ride the path to the top of the precipice, 

               where, in the shelter of the grove, they spend their 

               honeymoon. The MUSIC CONTINUES as, still sweaty from their 

               love-making, he returns her to her house just before dawn.

               She waves from her window, as William rides away, as we

                                                               DISSOLVE TO:

               EXT. VILLAGE OF LANARK - DAY

               It's Market Day in the village, busy with Highlanders, 

               merchants of all kinds, and a few special attractions like 

               jugglers and fortune tellers. Marion moves along a table 

               full of flowers and fruit... William, concealed behind hanging 

               baskets, watches her unseen, savoring the beauty of his 

               beloved, bathing his soul in the sight of her. Then she looks 

               up and spots him, her smile sudden and luminous, before she 

               remembers to conceal it. He moves up beside her.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I've missed you.

                                     MARION

                         Shush. It's only been a day.

                              (beat)

                         And it's seemed like forever.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Tonight then.

                                     MARION

                         My parents are growing suspicious! I 

                         can't keep meeting you every night!

               Playfully he pokes his finger under the collar of her dress, 

               pulling up the strip of checked cloth he gave her at their 

               wedding, which she now wears hidden around her neck.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Then when?

                                     MARION

                         ...Tonight!

               Tucking in the cloth strip, she hurries away, smiling.

               ANGLE - DRUNKEN ENGLISH SOLDIERS - BY AN ALE CASK - DAY

               They spot Marion moving through the fair, glowing, beautiful.

               The soldiers smirk at each other; as Marion passes, one of 

               them grabs her wrist. It's the soldier with the scar, the 

               one who's been staring at her.

                                     SOLDIER

                         Where are you going... lass?

                                     MARION

                         Let go.

               A second drunken SOLDIER pipes up.

                                     SOLDIER #2

                         Why don't you marry my friend here? 

                         Then I'll take the first night!

               The scarred soldier pulls Marion into his big arms; she shoves 

               him away with surprising strength, and he staggers back, to 

               the laughter of his friends. Then he snatches her again and 

               kisses her hard on the lips.

               She breaks free and SLAPS him fiercely, hard enough to draw 

               blood from his mouth. Tasting the trickle, he slings her 

               down against sacks of grain, and the soldiers are all over 

               her, pinning her down, ripping her clothes, a full scale 

               public gang rape. As the townspeople try to move in the three 

               soldiers waiting their turn at Marion pull their knives, 

               keep them townspeople back.

                                     SOLDIER #1

                         Bitch, who do you think you are?

               He slams his mouth down against hers for a long, awful time, 

               comes up clawing at her dress to rip it from her body... and 

               is hit in the face by a rock thrown at great speed!

               It takes a moment for the other soldiers to realize what 

               just happened, and in that instant William is on them. He 

               wrenches one soldier's arm in a direction it was never meant 

               to go, breaking the elbow, separating the shoulder, and 

               slinging the howling soldier into his comrades.

               Two of the soldiers leap at William, swinging their short 

               swords; William ducks, knocking their ale cask into their 

               knees; William lifts the whole table where they were sitting 

               and slams it into the faces of two more attackers.

                                     MARION

                         William!

               She shouts to warn him that the scarred soldier, now 

               bloodyfaced, has recovered from the rock and is behind William 

               with a knife. William sidesteps the first thrust, snatches a 

               leg from the shattered table and crushes the man's skull.

                                     MARKET WOMEN

                         Wallace Wallace! William Wallace!

               But there's no time for celebration. There's blood and ale 

               everywhere, and the fallen soldiers are yelling...

                                     FALLEN SOLDIER

                         Rebels! Help!

               MORE SOLDIERS hear the call and come running, reinforcements 

               converging from all over the village.

                                     VILLAGE FOLKS

                         Run, William! Run!

               Will sees the horse that pulled the flower cart and throws 

               Marion up onto its back. He slaps the horse's rump and it 

               plunges with Marion into the twisting village lanes. William 

               darts off through the crowd, as the MAGISTRATE and more of 

               his soldiers arrive -- dozens of them!

               William pauses out in the central street of the village, 

               just long enough to be sure they've spotted him, and darts 

               into a side lane in the opposite direction Marion went; 

               William weaves through the narrow streets of the medieval 

               town, knocking over baskets, jumping carts.

               As the soldiers stumble after him, the Magistrate looks down 

               at his mangled soldiers. The one with the ruptured arm is 

               lying in agony.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         What happened?

                                     SOLDIER

                         ...girl.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         What girl?!

                                     SOLDIER

                         ...on horse.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         The girl on the horse! Stop her!

               The shout rings through the village; Marion hears it, and 

               when she sees more soldiers at the far end of the lane she's 

               trying to take out of town, she urges the horse into an even 

               narrower back alley. She sees a clear route to freedom...

               But the flock of pigeons pecking on the scraps thrown there 

               behind the shops rise into the horse's face with a sudden 

               thrashing of wings, and the horse shies against a wall.

               Marion controls him, but a flap of her ripped dress has caught 

               on a crude nail, and as the frightened horse lunges forward 

               again, she is pulled off its bare back, her dress catching 

               and ripping at the same time, dropping her hard.

               WILLIAM

               reaches the edge of the town and slips into the trees by the 

               river; the soldiers are running every which way, but they've 

               lost him. Thinking Marion's made it too, William heads deeper 

               into the trees.

               IN THE TOWN, MARION

               recovers; her dress has torn free! She starts to get up; but 

               the soldiers' pikes appear over her, and the magistrate leers.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         So this is the little whore he was 

                         fighting for.

               EXT. THE GROVE AT THE PRECIPICE - DAY

               William moves into the shelters of the trees, expecting to 

               see Marion. He doesn't. He listens; only the rustling of the 

               wind through the treetops.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Marion!

               Nothing, except the wind.

               INT. ROYAL MAGISTRATE'S HEADQUARTERS - DAY

               Marion is thrown into a chair and her arms are bound with an 

               oak staff behind her elbows. She and two dozen soldiers are 

               in the tavern the English have commandeered.

               The Magistrate is a battlescarred veteran, a brutal pragmatist 

               angry with his CORPORAL.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         One Scot buggers six of us? Hell to 

                         pay when that gets round.

                                     CORPORAL

                         Burn the village.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         But he is free. You never catch 'em 

                         in the Highlands.

               He studies Marion, her mouth now stuffed with burlap. He 

               notices the strip of cloth around her neck, and touches the 

               weave curiously.

                                     CORPORAL

                         Clans weave that cloth in their own 

                         patterns.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         So why is this strip concealed?

                              (beat)

                         He fought for you, eh?

               EXT. TOWN SQUARE - DAY

               The Magistrate and his men bring Marion into the village 

               center, and tie her to a post of the well. The townspeople 

               don't want to be near the soldiers, but they hang on the 

               fringes of the square, too curious to pull away.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         An assault on the king's soldiers is 

                         the same as assaulting the king!

               He looks down at Marion, her mouth bound, her eyes defiant.

               He jerks out his dagger and slices Marion's throat!

               Her eyes spring open like a doe's; then she sags, dead. The 

               townspeople are speechless; even some of the soldiers are 

               shocked. The Magistrate turns calmly to his men.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Now. Let this scrapper come to me.

               LONG SHOT - EXT. THE GROVE AT THE PRECIPICE - DAY

               From a distance, we see Hamish approaching the grove, the 

               same one where he and William played as boys. Hamish moves 

               reluctantly, forcing himself forward; as he reaches the grove, 

               William appears, hurrying out to him.

               We STAY IN THE LONG SHOT, seeing William asking anxiously 

               for any news, and seeing Hamish's great shoulders as he tells 

               him something that makes William step backwards...

               EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - DAY

               At a barrier across the main road into the center of the 

               village are twenty professional soldiers, entrenched, fully 

               armed -- bows, pikes, swords. They hear A HORSE'S SNORT...

               THE ENGLISH SOLDIERS' POV - WALLACE, ON HIS HORSE

               He has stopped, rock still. The soldiers hush; there is 

               something unsettling about this man alone, staring at the 

               twenty of them, as if to steel himself for the butchery.

               Wallace raises his sword, screams... and charges!

               EXT. VARIOUS ANGLES - LANARK VILLAGE - DAY - THE FIGHT

               We FAVOR WALLACE'S SUBJECTIVE POV: the barrier as his horse 

               pounds toward it, the faces of the enemy soldiers with their 

               eyes white with fear... They stand to shoot at him with their 

               bows; the arrows WHISH toward the lens, fly past...

               The arrows tear through Wallace's clothes, but don't catch 

               his flesh. He charges on; his horse LEAPS the barrier as 

               Wallace simultaneously swings the broadsword -- and he's 

               more than an expert: the tip, at the end of a huge arc, nearly 

               breaks the sound barrier and the blade bites through the 

               corporal's helmet, taking off the upper half of his head!

               The soldiers try to rally, to shoot him in the back as his 

               horse leaps over them. One of them has sighted William's 

               back... But Hamish and his father crash into them! It's a 

               wild fight; old Campbell takes an arrow through the shoulder 

               but keeps hacking with his sword; Hamish batters down two 

               men -- and more Scots arrive! They overwhelm the soldiers.

               WALLACE RACES THROUGH THE VILLAGE - FAVORING HIS POV

               He dodges obstacles in the narrow streets -- chickens, carts, 

               barrels. Soldiers pop up; the first he gallops straight over; 

               the next he whacks forehand, like a polo player; the next 

               chops down on his left side; every time he swings the 

               broadsword, a man dies.

               Wallace gallops on; his farmer neighbors, and people from 

               the village, follow in his wake.

               EXT. IN THE VILLAGE - DAY

               The Magistrate hears the APPROACHING SHOUTS. He and thirty 

               more of his men are barricaded around the village square.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Don't look surprised! We knew he'd 

                         bring friends!

               The see Wallace gallop into sight; but he stops, then heads 

               down a side street.

               The Magistrate and his men don't like this; where did he go?

               Which way will he come from? And then they hear the horses, 

               and see the other Scots, at the head of the main street. The 

               soldiers unleash a volley of arrows at them.

               They are loading to fire again when Wallace runs in -- on 

               foot! -- and cuts down two soldiers! The other Scots charge!

               The startled soldiers break and run in every direction.

               The Magistrate, abandoned, runs too. Wallace pursues.

               Not far along a twisting lane, the bulky Magistrate falters.

               He turns to fight, and Wallace slashes away his sword.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         No! I beg you... mercy!

               IN THE TOWN SQUARE

               As the Scots see Wallace, they break off pursuing the English 

               soldiers and stop to watch; dragging the Magistrate by his 

               hair, Wallace hauls him back into the village square, slams 

               him against the well, and stands over him with heaving lungs 

               and wild eyes, staring at Marion's murderer.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Please. Mercy!

               Wallace's eyes shift, falling on

               THE STAIN OF BLOOD

               Marion's blood, in a dark dry splash by the wall of the well, 

               the stain dripping down onto the dirt of the street. Wallace 

               spins, jerks back the Magistrate's head, and cuts his throat 

               with the sword.

               ON THE OTHER SCOTS

               Silenced by what they've just seen and done. On old Campbell's 

               face is a look of reverence, and awe.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Say Grace to God, lads. We've just 

                         seen the coming of the Messiah.

               William staggers a few steps, and collapses to his knees.

               And then not just the Scottish farmers but the townspeople 

               too begin a strange, Hi-Lo chant.

                                     CROWD

                         AHHHHHHH-UHHHHHH! AHHHHHH-UHHHHHH!

               William's wild eyes slowly regain their focus. And there in 

               the dirt beside the well, he sees the severed cloth strip he 

               gave to Marion, now stained with her blood. He lifts it, 

               crushes it in his hand, as the Highlanders chant for war.

               EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - NIGHT

               The villagers are still excited by what just happened; at 

               the blacksmith's forge, men tend to Campbell's wound...

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Pour it straight into the wound. I 

                         know it seems a waste of good whiskey, 

                         but indulge me.

               They obey, then take a glowing poker from the fire and run 

               it through Campbell's shoulder, where the arrow went. There 

               is a terrible SIZZLE, and Campbell reacts to the pain.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Ah. Now that'll clear your sinuses, 

                         lads.

               Campbell looks down at his left hand. His thumb is missing!

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Well bloody Hell, look at this! Now 

                         it's nothing but a fly swatter.

               Wallace is sitting alone nearby, staring at nothing. Hamish 

               moves over and puts a hand on his shoulder. Wallace looks at 

               his friend, and looks away; killing the Magistrate did not 

               bring Marion back.

               SHOUTS of alarm: ARMED MEN are coming! The farmers scramble 

               for their weapons, ready to fight; even Campbell jumps up; 

               but what they see coming out of the darkness are twenty more 

               farmers, with hayhooks, knives, axes, anything they could 

               find for weapons. Their leader is MacGREGOR.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         MacGregor -- from the next valley!

               MacGregor leads his men into the circle of rebels.

                                     MACGREGOR

                         We heard about what was happenin'. 

                         And we don't want ya thinkin' ya can 

                         have your fun without us.

                                     WALLACE

                         Go home. Some of us are in this, I 

                         can't help that now. But you can 

                         help yourselves. Go home.

                                     MACGREGOR

                         We'll have no homes left when the 

                         English garrison at the castle comes 

                         through to burn us out.

               They all look at Wallace.

               EXT. ENGLISH MILITARY STRONGHOLD - NIGHT

               Furious preparations: armorers pound breastplates, hone 

               spears, grind swords in a shower of sparks. The garrison is 

               led by BOTTOMS, the English lord who claimed the right of 

               prima noctes. Now he shouts to his scurrying soldiers.

                                     LORD BOTTOMS

                         Gather the horses! Align the infantry!

                              (grabs a man)

                         Ride to the Lord Governor in Stirling.

               Tell him that I will hang five rebels for every good 

               Englishman killed! FORM FOR MARCH!

               The troops begin to scramble into the courtyard. At the same 

               time, the messenger gallops to the gate and nods for the 

               keepers to open it. They pull up the chains and the heavy 

               gate rises. The messenger spurs his horse to gallop through -- 

               and is hit in the chest with an axe!

               The Scots, hidden just outside the gate, come pouring through, 

               led by Wallace! Arrows pick soldiers from their perches, 

               Scots drop over the wall; the surprise is so complete that 

               it's over almost without a fight. Lord Bottoms looks around 

               in confusion...

                                     LORD BOTTOMS

                         Stop them... Don't let... Align...

               Scots drag Lord Bottoms off his horse; an arrow in a flexed 

               bow jabs right up to his eye, the archer ready to drive the 

               shaft through Bottom's eye socket and into his brain; but 

               Wallace's hand closes on the archer's fingers -- and Bottoms 

               sees that the archer at the other end of the arrow shaft is 

               none other than the Highland farmgirl he forced into his bed 

               on her wedding night. Beside her is her husband, holding a 

               scythe, red with English blood.

                                     WALLACE

                         On your way somewhere, M'lord?

                                     LORD BOTTOMS

                         Murdering bloody bandit!

               The point of Wallace's sword jumps beneath the Lord's chin.

                                     WALLACE

                         My name is William Wallace. I am no 

                         bandit who hides his face... Find 

                         this man a horse.

               The green eyes of the defiled highland bride flash fire.

               William takes his hand from her bow and looks at her, grief 

               for Marion in his eyes; for the sake of that she does not 

               release the string.

                                     WALLACE

                         Give him a horse.

               Hamish extends the reins of the Lord's thoroughbred.

                                     WALLACE

                         Not this horse. That one.

               He nods to a bony nag hitched next to a glue pot.

                                     WALLACE

                         Today we will spare you, and every 

                         man who has yielded. Go back to 

                         England. Tell them Scotland's 

                         daughters and her sons are yours no 

                         more. Tell them Scotland is free.

               As the Scots cheer, Wallace throws Lord Bottoms onto the 

               nag's back and slaps the horse's rear. IT shambles away, 

               followed by the English survivors, as the Scots chant...

                                     SCOTS

                         Wal-lace, Wal-lace, Wal-lace!...

               CLOSE - A GRAVESTONE - EXT. HIGHLANDS - DAY

               The marker is carved with the name MARION MacCLANNOUGH, and 

               beneath her name A THISTLE is chiseled into the stone.

               Bagpipes wail like banshees and the Priest who married Marion 

               and William now mutters ancient prayers as her body, wrapped 

               in burial canvas, is lowered into the earth, under the sad 

               eyes of those who just fought in the battle.

               Opposite William stands old MacClannough; he stares across 

               the open hole that accepts the body of his daughter, his 

               eyes full of pain, and then staggers away.

               Wallace kneels at the graveside in unspeakable grief. From 

               within his shirt he withdraws the embroidered handkerchief 

               she gave him, and the bloodstained strip of cloth he gave 

               her. He places the strip over her heart, and as the 

               gravediggers fill the hole her returns the handkerchief to 

               its spot over his own heart.

               EXT. LONDON PALACE - DAY

               Prince Edward is in his garden, playing the medieval version 

               of croquet with his friend. The Princess, ignored, sits 

               watching. Longshanks marches through the game, furious.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Scottish rebels have routed Lord 

                         Bottoms!

                                     EDWARD

                         I hear. This Wallace is a bandit, 

                         nothing more.

               Longshanks slaps his son, knocking him down among the colored 

               balls and wickets. Everyone gasps, stunned.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         You weak little coward! Stand up!

               Longshanks jerks him to his feet.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         I go to France to press our rights 

                         there! I leave you to handle this 

                         little rebellion, do you understand? 

                         DO YOU?!

               Longshanks grabs his son by the throat.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         And turn yourself into a man.

               The king leaves. The friends of the humiliated Prince hurry 

               to him and lift him; as the Princess moves to him too...

                                     EDWARD

                         Get away from me!

               He slaps her! Her personal guards, Frenchmen in distinctive 

               uniforms, jump from their seats at the edge of the garden, 

               but the Princess raises a hand to show she needs no 

               assistance, and curtseys to Edward, who shouts --

                                     EDWARD

                         Convene my military council!

               As Edward marches off with his entourage, NICOLETTE, a 

               beautiful raven-haired Handmaiden, rushes to the Princess, 

               who is wobbly, hurt more than she let show. Nicolette whispers 

               to her in French, with subtitles...

                                     NICOLETTE

                         They say this Wallace killed thirty 

                         men to avenge the death of his woman. 

                         I hope your husband goes to Scotland. 

                         Then you'll be a widow.

               INT. BRUCE'S CASTLE - BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

               Robert the Bruce is in bed with a young Nordic beauty with 

               vacant blue eyes. She drowses; but the lovemaking has not 

               defused the restlessness of Robert's spirit. He lies on his 

               stomach, turned away from her on the bed. Stirring, she kisses 

               his neck; but he doesn't respond.

                                     WOMAN

                         I wanted to please you.

                                     ROBERT

                         You did.

               But he is numb as she nuzzles him again. She sags back, and 

               he still stares away, lost in thought. Realizing her hurt, 

               he explains...

                                     ROBERT

                         In Lanark village, the king's soldiers 

                         killed a girl. Her lover fought his 

                         way through the soldiers and killed 

                         the magistrate.

               She looks at him blankly.

                                     ROBERT

                         He rebelled. He rebelled. He acted. 

                         He fought! Was it rage? Pride? Love? 

                         Whatever it was, he has more of it 

                         than I.

                                     WOMAN

                              (hurt)

                         You might have lied.

                                     ROBERT

                         I'm too arrogant to lie.

               CLOSE - ROBERT THE BRUCE

               On his FACE as he moves grimly up a dark castle staircase.

               He follows a servant who carries a candle against the gloom.

               They reach a door, which the servant unlocks. Young Robert 

               takes the candle, and enters --

               A DARKENED ROOM

               Robert wills himself forward, and places the candle on a 

               table in the center of the room. A SHUFFLE in the dark; then 

               moving into the light is a LEPER whose once-noble features 

               are decaying with the disease. Isolated in his disfiguration, 

               he looks at his visitor -- his son -- with the eyes of the 

               condemned. Young Robert forces himself not to look away.

                                     ROBERT THE BRUCE

                         Father. A rebellion has begun.

                                     THE LEPER

                         Under whom?

                                     ROBERT

                         A commoner named William Wallace.

                                     THE LEPER

                         A commoner? So no one leads Scotland?

               The old man thinks, and points a half finger at his son.

                                     THE LEPER

                         You will embrace this rebellion. 

                         Support it, from our lands in the 

                         north. I will gain English favor by 

                         condemning it and ordering it opposed 

                         from our lands in the south. Whichever 

                         way the tide runs, we will rise.

                                     ROBERT

                         This Wallace. He doesn't even have a 

                         knighthood. But he fights with 

                         passion, and he is clever. He inspires 

                         men.

                                     THE LEPER

                         You admire him. Uncompromising men 

                         are easy to admire. He has courage. 

                         So does a dog. But you must understand 

                         this: Edward Longshanks is the most 

                         ruthless king ever to sit on the 

                         throne of England, and none of us, 

                         and nothing of Scotland, will survive 

                         unless we are as ruthless, more 

                         ruthless, than he.

               Young Bruce rises heavily, and moves to the door.

                                     THE LEPER

                         Press your case to the nobles. They 

                         will choose who rules Scotland.

               With a last long look at his father, Robert leaves.

               EXT. SCOTLAND - MONTAGE - DAY

               -- Troops ride through the countryside, intimidating and 

               questioning civilians; all refuse to talk.

               -- Wallace's house burns, as soldiers dig up the graves of 

               his father and brother, and scatter their bones to dogs.

               -- The English search through the woods, finding nothing.

               EXT. WALLACE LANDS - NIGHT

               William and Hamish ride, to see the damage. They find the 

               smoking ruins, and the defiled family graves.

                                     HAMISH

                         Ah, William... I am so sorry.

               William is struck by an awful, urgent thought...

               EXT. UNDERBRUSH NEAR MARION'S GRAVE - DUSK

               We open on Marion's grave, with the thistle-carved marker, 

               looking peaceful; but up the hill in the underbrush, English 

               soldiers wait in ambush. Edgy, they perk up at the sound of 

               muffled hoofbeats -- then their eyes bug as a cloaked figure -- 

               Wallace -- suddenly looms up behind them, galloping and 

               swirling fire! He hurls burning torches into the clustered 

               soldiers, setting some of them on fire!

               MEANWHILE, HAMISH has crawled to Marion's grave and is digging 

               frantically. The new dirt parts easily and he pulls the 

               shrouded body out, cringing with the effort.

               MORE SOLDIERS rush from behind the rocks at the far side of 

               the graveyard. Wallace charges them, driving them back. He 

               grabs the reins of Hamish's horse, hidden among trees, and 

               gallops to him.

               Hamish hands the shrouded body up to William and bounds into 

               the saddle of his own horse. They spur the horses and ride 

               away, William clutching Marion's shrouded body to his chest.

               EXT. SECRET GROVE ON THE PRECIPICE - NIGHT

               William dismounts, stretching the body gently on the ground.

               Hamish dismounts too, with the spade he used to dig up the 

               old grave. He sees the emotion on William's face.

                                     HAMISH

                         I'll wait... back there.

                                     WALLACE

                         Hamish, I... thank...

               Hamish puts a hand on his friend's shoulder, then quietly 

               leads the horses away. William starts to dig...

               LATER IN THE GROVE

               William sits looking at the new grave, covered with leaves -- 

               completely hidden. He touches his hand to the earth.

               EXT. WOODS - BY THE STREAM - NIGHT

               Hamish is waiting as William comes out of the grove. There 

               is nothing to say. They mount their horses and ride away, as 

               the MUSIC of William and Marion's love haunts us...

               EXT. WOODS - ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

               Wallace and his inner circle hare huddled around a small 

               fire. Other highlanders guard the perimeters. Old Campbell 

               is lovingly honing the broadswords to razor edges and sharing 

               a whiskey jug with Hamish, who stares at the fire. Wallace 

               is using a stick to draw diagrams in the dirt.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         What're ya doin'?

                                     WALLACE

                         Thinking.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Does it hurt?

                                     WALLACE

                         What do we do when Longshanks sends 

                         his whole northern army against us? 

                         They have heavy cavalry. Armored 

                         horses, that shake the very ground. 

                         They'll ride right over us.

               At a loss, Wallace looks up at the sky. HE SEES: the trees 

               stretching into the night like spikes to skewer the stars.

                                     WALLACE

                         We make spears. A hundred spears. 

                         Fourteen feet long.

                                     HAMISH

                         Fourteen? --

                                     SENTRY (O.S.)

                         Volunteers coming in!

               They look to see a half dozen new volunteers being led in, 

               blindfolded. When the guides remove the blindfolds, the new 

               recruits see Wallace and rush to him, bowing.

                                     RECRUIT (FAUDRON)

                         William Wallace? We have come to 

                         fight and die for you!

                                     WALLACE

                         Stand up, man, I'm not the Pope.

                                     FAUDRON

                         I am Faudron! My sword is yours! And 

                         I brought you this tarta --

               As he reaches into his cloak, both Hamish and Campbell 

               instantly draw their swords and put the points to his neck.

                                     SENTRY

                         We checked them for arms.

               Carefully, Faudron pulls out a beautiful tartan scarf, and 

               replaces Wallace's tattered old one.

                                     FAUDRON

                         It's your family tartan! My wife 

                         wove it with her own hands.

                                     WALLACE

                         Thank her for me.

               A loud voice interrupts...

                                     VOICE

                         Him? That can't be William Wallace! 

                         I'm prettier than this man!

               They all look at a slender, handsome young man, STEPHEN, who 

               is talking to himself -- or more accurately, seems to listen 

               to some unheard voice, then answer it...

                                     STEPHEN

                         All right, Father, I'll ask him!

                              (to William)

                         If I risk my neck for you, will I 

                         get a chance to kill Englishmen?

                                     HAMISH

                         Is your Poppa a ghost -- or do you 

                         converse with God Almighty?

                                     STEPHEN

                         In order to find his equal, and 

                         Irishman is forced to talk to God.

                              (quickly)

                         Yes, Father!...

                              (to Wallace)

                         The Almighty says don't change the 

                         subject, just answer the fookin' 

                         question.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Insane Irish --

               Stephen whips a dagger from his sleeve and puts it at 

               Campbell's throat.

                                     STEPHEN

                         Smart enough to get a dagger past 

                         your guards, old man.

               Wallace jerks his sword to the Irishman's throat, and grins.

                                     WALLACE

                         That's my friend, Irishman. And the 

                         answer's yes. You fight for me, you 

                         kill the English.

               Stephen grins, and happily tucks away the dagger.

                                     STEPHEN

                         Excellent! Stephen is my name. I'm 

                         the most wanted man on the Emerald 

                         Isle. Except I'm not on the Emerald 

                         Isle of course, more's the pity.

                                     HAMISH

                         A common thief.

                                     STEPHEN

                         A patriot!

               Wallace shakes his head and moves back to the fire, as the 

               sentries take the newcomers to find their own spaces.

               EXT. SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

               A column of English light cavalry -- a hundred riders -- 

               moves through the picturesque beauty of the Highlands.

               English LORD DOLECROFT is in command, wearing a hat with a 

               pompous white plume. UP AHEAD, the English SCOUT sees five 

               Scots, including Hamish, walking out of the forest. The Scots 

               run; the Scout rides back to Dolecroft.

                                     SCOUT

                         Scotsmen, Sire! Headed west!

                                     DOLECROFT

                         They've blundered at last! After 

                         them!

               The English force charges off. Hamish and his men changed 

               direction but the English spot them crossing a hilltop and 

               ride after them. The Scots run for their lives; the English 

               horses gallop. The Scots run down one slope, up another; the 

               English follow, find their horses stumbling, and see...

                                     SCOUT

                         We're in a bog!

                                     DOLECROFT

                         Here, it's firm this way --

               But as they move toward the firm ground, fifty Scots appear 

               on the crest of the hill. Hamish leads them, smiling.

               Dolecroft wheels and looks to his rear; Wallace appears there, 

               with fifty more, and more Scots appear to the left and right 

               of the English, who are surrounded in the bog. Too late, 

               Dolecroft realizes his blunder. Wallace lifts his broadsword, 

               screams, and leads the charge...

               EXT. SCOTTISH WOODS - DAY

               The Scots are moving through deep woods; they are laden with 

               the booty they took from the English cavalry: extra weapons, 

               clothing, food -- and one man even wears the late Dolecroft's 

               plumed hat. Wallace is leading them, traveling with his heavy 

               sheathed broadsword across his shoulders.

                                     WALLACE

                         Stop here and rest.

               They collapse to the leaves and loam, greedily squeezing 

               water from sheep belly canteens.

               INT. STIRLING CASTLE - DAY

               LORD PICKERING, English commander, is handed news of the 

               disaster. He reads the message, and pales.

                                     PICKERING

                         Another ambush! My God! ...What about 

                         our infiltrator?

                                     ASSISTANT

                         He has already joined them, M'lord.

               EXT. SCOTTISH WOODS - NIGHT

               The moon is high above the Scots, encamped for the night.

               Most everyone is sleeping, but William sits leaning against 

               a tree, lost in lonely thoughts. Suddenly William freezes; a 

               shaft of moonlight illuminates a cloaked woman standing twenty 

               feet ahead of him. Something about her is familiar -- and 

               then she pulls off the hood, revealing her auburn hair, 

               cascading in the moonlight... It is Marion!

                                     WALLACE

                         Marion! Is... is it you?

               Joy explodes on his face, and he runs to her, but stops before 

               he touches her, as if she might evaporate.

                                     WALLACE

                         I'm dreaming.

                                     MARION

                         Yes, you are. And you must wake.

                                     WALLACE

                         I don't want to wake. I want to stay 

                         with you.

                                     MARION

                         And I with you. But you must wake.

                                     WALLACE

                         I need you so much! I love you!

                                     MARION

                         Wake up, William. Wake up!

                                     HAMISH'S VOICE

                         Wake up, William!...

                                     MARION/HAMISH

                         Wake up!...

               William clutches at Marion, but his arms can't enclose her.

               HE WAKES

               lying on his new tartan, in camp, with Hamish shaking him, 

               William's arms clutched empty to his chest.

                                     HAMISH

                         William! Hounds!

               Wallace jumps up, hearing the DISTANT BARKING that alarmed 

               Hamish. Stephen, the new Irish recruit, races up.

                                     STEPHEN

                         We must run in different directions!

                                     HAMISH

                         We don't split up!

                                     STEPHEN

                         They used hounds on us in Ireland, 

                         it's the only way!

                                     WALLACE

                         He's right, Hamish! Campbell! Divide 

                         them and run!

               Shoving groups of men in different directions, Wallace then 

               takes off. His group is about a dozen; they race through the 

               woods, dodging trees, running aimlessly. They stop and listen. 

               The BARKS are getting closer.

                                     WALLACE

                         Split again!

               Again they divide, and race in different directions.

               But no matter how they run and dodge, the BARKS grow nearer.

               We INTERCUT with the approaching of the dogs -- a large PACK 

               OF HOUNDS, with keepers like on a fox hunt, and behind the 

               dogs, Lord Pickering, with his soldiers, prepared for a long 

               chase, cloaked against the wet darkness, carrying torches.

               Wallace and others pause, hear the dogs, and run again, in a 

               new direction. The hounds are relentless. Wallace's group is 

               down to Hamish, Stephen, and Faudron.

                                     WALLACE

                         No matter how we go, they follow. 

                         They have our scent. My scent.

                                     FAUDRON

                         Run! You must not be caught!

               Faster now, faster. The barks are getting very close.

               Wallace and his friends are starting to panic. The blood 

               beats in their ears, their breath scalds their lungs. And we 

               MOVE IN on Wallace's eyes. He stops, gasping.

                                     STEPHEN

                         We can't stop!

                                     WALLACE

                         They've tricked us.

                                     STEPHEN

                         What's the crazy man saying, Lord?

                                     WALLACE

                         The dogs have a scent. My scent. 

                         Someone must have given it to them.

                                     STEPHEN

                         Who would do such a thing?

                                     WALLACE

                         Exactly.

               Wallace pulls out his dagger...

               THE DOGS

               bark frantically now; they smell a kill; they tug so hard at 

               their leashes that the handlers are almost dragged along.

                                     HANDLER

                         Be ready! We have them!

               The soldiers grip their weapons, ready to take their 

               prisoners. They burst into the little clearing; the dogs 

               find a body, stabbed, his throat cut; the dogs plunge their 

               snouts into the gore, yipping wildly. The handlers must fight 

               furiously to tear the dogs from the body.

               Lord Pickering approaches the body and looks down. It is 

               Faudron, mangled now but clearly identifiable -- with the 

               scarf he gave William, in place of William's own, tucked 

               into his shirt.

                                     LORD PICKERING

                         Damnation! Damnation!

               As Pickering rants, his men look at the darkness all around.

                                     LORD PICKERING

                         After him! Get them going again!

                                     HANDLER

                         Their noses are drowned in new blood, 

                         they'll follow nothing now!

               And just as the realization hits Pickering that he can't 

               pursue Wallace any further, a cloaked figure mixed in among 

               his men leans in from behind him to whisper...

                                     STEPHEN OF IRELAND

                         The Almighty says for you to give 

                         His regards to the Devil.

               Pickering's eyes go wide, then roll back as Stephen's dagger 

               slides expertly through his back ribs and into his heart. As 

               Pickering falls and his men realize what has happened, Stephen 

               has already run back into the trees.

               Pickering's men freeze at this sudden turn of events. Even 

               the dogs whimper, picking up the rising fear of the men around 

               them. Then from the darkness all around them comes a chorus 

               of demonic, bloodcurdling yells --

                                     WALLACE/HAMISH/STEPHEN

                         ARRRRRGGGGGGGHHHH!

               Three wild men tear out of the darkness from different 

               directions, their swords slashing. Pickering's men panic and 

               run, their dogs yelping, and the other soldiers, evident by 

               their torches, fell with them in all directions.

               Wallace, Hamish and Stephen are left alone in the heart of 

               the woods, howling, barking like dogs, snarling like wolves -- 

               and then laughing like hyenas!

                                     STEPHEN

                         I thought I was dead when ya pulled 

                         that dagger!

                                     WALLACE

                         No English lord would trust an 

                         Irishman!

                                     HAMISH

                         Let's kill him anyway.

               They laugh again; then Wallace's laughter leaks away, and he 

               stares into the trees, where he saw Marion in his dream.

               VARIOUS SHOTS - THE STORY SPREADS THROUGH SCOTLAND...

               Two men are talking in A VILLAGE...

                                     VILLAGER

                         ...and William Wallace killed fifty 

                         men! Fifty, if it was one!

               The same tale is exchanged by two farmers AT A CROSSROADS...

                                     FARMER

                         A hundred men! With his own sword! 

                         He cut a through the English like --

               The tale is repeated IN A TAVERN...

                                     DRINKER

                         -- Moses through the Red Sea! Hacked 

                         off two hundred heads!

                                     DRINKER #2

                         Two hundred?!

                                     DRINKER

                         Saw it with my own eyes.

               And the rumors are discussed even INSIDE THE PALACE GROUNDS 

               IN LONDON, where the Prince and his friends are trying on 

               elaborate attire presented them by fawning tailors, and the 

               Princess, ignored by her husband, strolls and chats with her 

               Handmaiden, Nicolette (in subtitled French).

                                     NICOLETTE

                         When the king returns he will bury 

                         them in those new clothes. Scotland 

                         is in chaos. Your husband is secretly 

                         sending an army north.

                                     PRINCESS

                         How do you know this?

                                     NICOLETTE

                         Last night I slept with a member of 

                         the War Council.

                                     PRINCESS

                         He shouldn't be telling secrets in 

                         bed.

                                     NICOLETTE

                         Ah, Oui! Englishmen don't know what 

                         a tongue is for.

               The Princess blushes, whacks her with her fan, and smiles.

                                     PRINCESS

                         This Scottish rebel... Wallace? He 

                         fights to avenge a woman?

                                     NICOLETTE

                         A magistrate wished to capture him, 

                         and found he had a secret lover, so 

                         he cut the girl's throat to tempt 

                         Wallace to fight -- and fight he 

                         did.

               The Princess is pained at such cruelty; Nicolette warms to 

               share the juicy gossip...

                                     NICOLETTE

                         Knowing his passion for his lost 

                         love, they next plotted to take him 

                         by desecrating the graves of his 

                         father and brother and setting an 

                         ambush at the grave of his wife. He 

                         fought his way through the trap and 

                         carried her body to a secret place! 

                         Now that is romance, Oui?

                                     PRINCESS

                         ...I wouldn't know.

               EXT. SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS - DAY

               A Highlander, a RUNNER, slips like a shadow up the hillside, 

               to a circle of ancient monoliths. There, hidden among the 

               stone pillars, he finds Wallace and his band resting.

                                     RUNNER

                         The English are advancing an army 

                         toward Stirling!

                                     WALLACE

                         Do the nobles rally?

                                     RUNNER

                         Robert the Bruce and most of the 

                         others will not commit to war! But 

                         word has spread and Highlanders are 

                         coming down on their own, by the 

                         hundreds -- by the thousands!

               EXT. ROAD - DAY

               Wallace rides down the road, followed by his band. As they 

               pass people on the road, the women, the children, all cheer.

                                     PEOPLE

                         Wallace! It's William Wallace! God 

                         bless Wallace and Scotland!

               At a crossroads, more of Wallace's men join them, in clusters. 

               One group carries something long, encased in wool covers. 

               Farmers in the field, blacksmiths at their forges, leave 

               their work and uncover their inevitable weapons and run after 

               the riders. They put on their forbidden tartans, kiss their 

               wives and head off to fight.

               EXT. STIRLING FIELD - DAY

               Stirling Castle perches on a hill high above a grassy field, 

               cut in half by a river, spanned by an old wooden bridge.

               SCOTTISH NOBLES have gathered on a smaller hill overlooking 

               the field; they wear gleaming armor, with plumes, sashes and 

               banners, and are attended by squires and grooms.

               The mists of morning shroud most of the field. But from the 

               opposite side of the bridge they hear the CLATTERING of a 

               huge army moving forward. LOCHLAN, a noble, gallops to Mornay.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         It sounds like twenty thousand!

                                     MORNAY

                         The scouts say it is ten.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         And we have but two!

               THE COMMON SCOTTISH SOLDIERS

               are wearing padded leather shirts, and carry pikes and 

               daggers. As through the mists they see the numbers arrayed 

               against them, a YOUNG SOLDIER tugs at a grizzled VETERAN.

                                     YOUNG SOLDIER

                         So many!

                                     SCOTTISH VETERAN

                         The nobles will negotiate. If they 

                         deal, they send us home. If not, we 

                         charge. When we are all dead and 

                         they can call themselves brave, they 

                         withdraw.

                                     YOUNG SOLDIER

                         I didn't come to fight so they could 

                         own more lands that I could work for 

                         them!

                                     VETERAN

                         Nor did I. Not against these odds!

               He lowers his pike and starts to desert. At first one-by-one 

               and then in clumps, more highlanders follow.

               THE NOBLES see the desertion.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         Stop! Men! Do not flee! Not now! 

                         Wait until we have negotiated!

                                     MORNAY

                         They won't stop -- and who could 

                         blame them?

               Then, riding into the mob of men, comes Wallace, followed by 

               his friends. He's striking, charismatic, his powerful arms 

               bare, his chest covered not in armor but a commoner's leather 

               shirt, and unlike the heavy knights on their armored horses, 

               Wallace rides a swift horse, like he was born on it.

               The entire Scottish army watches in fascination as Wallace 

               and his men ride through them, toward the command hill. The 

               soldiers whisper among themselves...

                                     YOUNG SOLDIER

                         William Wallace?

                                     VETERAN

                         Couldn't be.

               The common soldiers, already having broken ranks, cluster up 

               the hill to see the confrontation. As Wallace and his captains 

               reach the nobles, Stephen laughs.

                                     STEPHEN

                         The Almighty says this must be a 

                         fashionable fight, it's drawn the 

                         finest people.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         Where is thy salute?

                                     WALLACE

                         For presenting yourselves on this 

                         battlefield, I give you thanks.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         This is our army. To join it, you 

                         give homage.

                                     WALLACE

                         I give homage to Scotland. And if 

                         this is your army, why does it go?

               Wallace reins his horse around to face the mob of sullen 

               men, now frightened, ready to desert. We play this picture, 

               Wallace sitting his horse, looking down in awe at this thing 

               that has grown beyond anyone's imagination.

               He glances at his friends: Campbell, Hamish, Stephen.

               They've got no suggestions, they're just as awed as he is.

                                     SCOTTISH VETERAN

                         We didn't come to fight for them!

                                     SHOUTS FROM MOB

                         Home! The English are too many!

               Wallace raises his hand, and the army falls silent.

                                     WALLACE

                         Sons of Scotland!... I am William 

                         Wallace!

                                     SOLDIER

                         William Wallace is seven feet tall!

                                     WALLACE

                         Yes, I have heard! He kills men by 

                         the hundreds! And if he were here, 

                         he would consume the English with 

                         fireballs from his eyes, and bolts 

                         of lightning from his ass!

               Many laugh -- all get the point.

                                     WALLACE

                         I am William Wallace. And my enemies 

                         do not go away. I saw our good nobles 

                         hanged. My wife... I am William 

                         Wallace. And I see a whole army of 

                         my countrymen, here in defiance of 

                         tyranny. You have come to fight as 

                         free men. And free men you are! What 

                         will you do with freedom? Will you 

                         fight?

                                     VETERAN

                         Two thousand, against ten? We will 

                         run -- and live!

                                     WALLACE

                         Yes. Fight and you may die. Run and 

                         you will live, at least awhile. And 

                         dying in your bed many years from 

                         now, would you be willing to trade 

                         all the days from this day to that, 

                         for one chance to come back here as 

                         young men, and tell our enemies that 

                         they make take our lives, but they 

                         will never take our freedom?

               Down on the plain, English emissaries in all their regal 

               finery gallop over the bridge, under a banner of truce.

                                     VETERAN

                         Look! The English comes to barter 

                         with our nobles for castles and 

                         titles. And our nobles will not be 

                         in the front of the battle!

                                     WALLACE

                         No! They will not!

               He dismounts, and draws his sword.

                                     WALLACE

                         And I will.

               Slowly, the chant begins, and builds...

                                     SCOTS

                         Wal-lace! Wal-lace! WAL-LACE!

               BAGPIPERS play, pulling the mob back into companies. But 

               through the lifting mists they see the overwhelming enemy 

               army. Hamish, Campbell and Stephen move up beside William.

                                     STEPHEN

                         Fine speech. Now what do we do?

                                     WALLACE

                         Bring out our spearmen and set them 

                         in the field.

               Campbell, Hamish and Stephen ride off. Mornay reins his horse 

               over, lifts the reins of Wallace's horse, and extends them 

               to him: an invitation to join the pre-battle talks.

               Wallace mounts up and rides out with the Scottish nobles to 

               meet the English contingent.

               OUT ON THE FIELD, THE TWO GROUPS OF RIDERS

               meet like the captains of football teams before the kickoff. 

               CHELTHAM, head of the English contingent, glares at Wallace.

                                     CHELTHAM

                         Mornay. Lochlan. Inverness.

                                     MORNAY

                         Cheltham. This is William Wallace

                                     CHELTHAM

                         Here are the King's terms. Lead this 

                         army off the field, and he will give 

                         you each estates in Yorkshire, 

                         including hereditary title, from 

                         which you will pay him an annual --

                                     WALLACE

                         I have an offer for you.

                                     CHELTHAM

                         ...From which you will pay the King 

                         an annual duty...

               Wallace pulls his broadsword and snaps it at Cheltham, whose 

               eyes flash in disbelief at the bad manners.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         You disrespect a banner of truce?!

                                     WALLACE

                         From his king? Absolutely. Here are 

                         Scotland's terms. Lower your flags 

                         and march straight to England, 

                         stopping at every Scottish home you 

                         pass to beg forgiveness for a hundred 

                         years of theft, rape, and murder. Do 

                         that, and your men shall live. Do it 

                         not, and every one of you will die 

                         today.

               Cheltham barks at the Scottish nobles...

                                     CHELTHAM

                         You are outmatched! You haven't even 

                         any cavalry! In two centuries no 

                         army has won without it!

                                     WALLACE

                         I'm not finished. Before we let you 

                         leave, your commander must cross 

                         that bridge, stand before this army, 

                         put his head between his legs, and 

                         kiss his own ass.

               The outraged Englishman gallops back to his lines.

                                     MORNAY

                         I'd say that was rather less cordial 

                         that he was used to.

                                     WALLACE

                         Be ready, and do exactly as I say.

               They return to the Scottish lines. Wallace dismounts where 

               his men are breaking out new 14-foot spears. Hamish, eyebrows 

               raised, looks expectantly at Wallace; Wallace nods.

                                     HAMISH

                         Wish I could see the noble lord's 

                         face when he tells him.

               LORD TALMADGE, AT HIS COMMAND POST

               The husky English commander's blood boils from Cheltham's 

               report. Before he can respond, they see WALLACE'S SPEARMEN 

               taking up a position on the far side of the bridge. Suddenly 

               the Scots turn and lift their kilts and moon the English!

                                     TALMADGE

                         Insolent bastard! Full attack! Give 

                         no quarter! And I want this Wallace's 

                         heart brought to me on a plate!

               Cheltham spurs his horse to form up the attack...

               EXT. THE FIELD BELOW STIRLING CASTLE - DAY

               The English army moves forward toward the bridge. It's so 

               narrow that only a single file of riders can move across it 

               at any one time. The English heavy cavalry, two hundred 

               knights, cross uncontested, and form up on the other side.

               WITH WALLACE AND THE SCOTS

               Things look terrible. Stephen turns to William.

                                     STEPHEN

                         The Lord tell me He can get me out 

                         of this mess. But He's pretty sure 

                         you're fooked.

               ON THE ENGLISH SIDE

               Talmadge sees the Scots doing nothing.

                                     TALMADGE

                         Amateurs! They do not even contest 

                         us! Send across the infantry.

                                     GENERAL

                         M'lord, the bridge is so narrow --

                                     TALMADGE

                         The Scots just stand in their 

                         formations!

               Our cavalry will ride them down like grass. Get the infantry 

               across so they can finish the slaughter!

               The English leaders shout orders and keep their men moving 

               across the bridge. Talmadge gestures for the attack flag.

               THE CAVALRY ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BRIDGE

               The English knights see the signal banners, telling them to 

               attack. They take the lances from their squires, and lower 

               the visors of their helmets. Proud, plumed, glimmering; they 

               look invincible. Their huge horses, themselves draped in 

               scarlet and purple, look like tanks. The knights charge!

               Their hooves THUNDER; the horses are so heavy the ground 

               literally shakes with the charge.

               The Scots stand and watch them come on. It's difficult to 

               imagine the courage this takes; from the POV OF THE SCOTTISH 

               LINES we see the massive horses boring in... we feel the 

               RISING THUNDER of the charge, closer, closer...

               Wallace moves to the front of the lead group of Scots.

                                     WALLACE

                         Steady! Hold... hold... NOW!

               The Scots snap their 14-foot spears straight up in unison.

                                     WALLACE

                         FORM!

               Now the spearmen snap the spears forward in ranks, the first 

               line of men bracing their spears at an angle three feet above 

               the ground, the men behind them bracing theirs at a five 

               foot level, the men behind that bracing at seven feet.

               The English knights have never seen such a formation. Their 

               lances are useless and it's too late to stop! The momentum 

               that was to carry the horses smashing through the men on 

               foot now becomes suicidal force; knights and horses impale 

               themselves on the long spears like beef on skewers.

               TALMADGE

               can see it; but worse is the SOUND, the SCREAMS OF DYING MEN 

               AND HORSES, carried to him across the battlefield.

               WALLACE AND HIS MEN

               are protected, behind a literal wall of fallen chargers and 

               knights. Wallace draws his broadsword and leads his swordsmen 

               out onto the field, attacking the knights that are still 

               alive. Most are off their horses; a few have managed to pull 

               up their mounts. Wallace and his men are so much more mobile 

               than the knights; the field runs with blood.

               Wallace faces Talmadge in the distance.

                                     WALLACE

                         Here I am, English coward! Come get 

                         me!!

               TALMADGE is even more enraged -- and his judgment is gone.

                                     TALMADGE

                         Press the men across!

                                     CHELTHAM

                         But M'lord!

               Talmadge himself gallops forward.

                                     TALMADGE

                         PRESS THEM!

               WALLACE smiles. He grabs Hamish.

                                     WALLACE

                         Tell Mornay to ride to the flank and 

                         cross upstream. Wait! Tell him to be 

                         sure the English see him ride away!

               Hamish hurries off with the message.

               The English infantry keeps moving across the little bridge.

               The Scottish nobles watch from their positions on horseback.

               They have a few dozen mounted riders, none heavily armored.

                                     LOCHLAN

                         If he waits much longer --

               Hamish hurries up.

                                     HAMISH

                         Ride around and ford behind them!

                                     MORNAY

                         We should not divide our forces!

                                     HAMISH

                         Wallace says do it! And he says for 

                         you to let the English see you!

                                     MORNAY

                              (understanding)

                         They shall think we run away.

               Mornay leads his riders away.

               LORD TALMADGE

               sees the Scottish nobles ride off, and shouts to Cheltham...

                                     TALMADGE

                         See! Every Scot with a horse is 

                         fleeing! Hurry! Hurry!

               He drives half his army across the river.

               WALLACE

               lifts his sword.

                                     WALLACE

                         For Scotland!

               He charges down the hill...

               THE FIGHT AT STIRLING BRIDGE - VARIOUS SHOTS

               The Scots follow Wallace on foot, charging into the English.

               The English leaders are stunned by the ferocious attack.

                                     TALMADGE

                         Press reinforcements across!

               The English leaders try to herd more of their footsoldiers 

               onto the bridge, which only hams them up. Meanwhile, on the 

               other side of the bridge, Wallace and his charging men slam 

               into the English infantry with wild fury. The English fall 

               back on each other, further blocking the bridge.

               UP ON THE HILLTOP

               The nobles look back with grudging admiration.

                                     MORNAY

                         He's taking the bloody bridge! The 

                         English can't get across! He's evened 

                         the odds at one stroke!

               With rising desire to join the bandwagon, the nobles spur...

               DOWN ON THE PLAIN, Wallace and the attacking men drive the 

               English back, killing as they go. The Scots reach the bridge 

               itself. The waters below it run red with blood.

               Talmadge has begun to panic.

                                     TALMADGE

                         Use the archers!

                                     GENERAL

                         They're too close, we'll shoot out 

                         own men!

               ON THE BRIDGE

               the Scots are carving their way through the English soldiers; 

               nothing can stop them. Wallace is relentless; each time he 

               swings, a head flies, or an arm. Hamish and Stephen fight 

               beside him, swinging the broadsword with both hands. Old 

               Campbell loses his shield in the grappling; an English 

               swordsman whacks at him and takes off his left hand, but 

               Campbell batters him to the ground with his right, and stabs 

               him. Reaching the English side of the bridge, the Scots begin 

               to build a barrier with the dead bodies.

               The English are not without courage. Cheltham leads a 

               desperate counterattack. The Scots make an impenetrable 

               barrier of slashing blades. Still Cheltham keeps coming; 

               Wallace hits him with a vertical slash that parts his helmet, 

               his hair, and his brain.

               TALMADGE has seen enough; he gallops away. The remaining 

               English General tries to save the army.

                                     GENERAL

                         We are still five thousand! Rally!

               The English try to form up; but the Scottish horsemen, fording 

               the river high upstream, come crashing into the English flank 

               and ride over the surprised English infantry.

               AT THE BRIDGE, WALLACE

               sees the Scottish nobles attacking. The English soldiers are 

               in utter panic, running and being cut down on all sides.

               And the Scottish soldiers taste something Scots have not 

               tasted for a hundred years: victory. Even while finishing 

               off the last of the English soldiers, they begin their highlow 

               chant... Even the noblemen take up the chant!

               Wallace looks around at the aftermath of the battle: bodies 

               on the field; soldiers lying impaled; stacks of bodies on 

               the bridge; the bridge slick with blood.

               Before it can all sink in, William is lifted on the shoulders 

               of his men.

                                     SCOTTISH SOLDIERS

                         Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!

               INT. CASTLE - GREAT HALL - DAY

               William kneels before one of Scotland's ancient elders, who 

               lifts a silver sword and dubs William's shoulders.

                                     ELDER

                         I knight thee Sir William Wallace.

               William rises and faces the Great Hall, crowded with hundreds 

               of new admirers, as well as his old friends in their new 

               clothes and armor. The crowd chants --

                                     CROWD

                         Wal-lace, Wal-lace!!

               Wallace lifts his eyes, taking it all in. At the rear of the 

               hall is a balcony, backed by a magnificent sunlit stained 

               glass window, and in the center of its rainbow corona he 

               sees a familiar form: Marion, so real to him in this moment 

               of triumph that he can see her, glowing like an angel, in a 

               gown worthy of the occasion. But the illusion won't last; in 

               the blink of an eye she is gone, and Wallace hears the chant, 

               and fingers the cloth she gave him.

               INT. SCOTTISH COUNCIL - DAY

               The nobles of Scotland are gathered in the huge chamber; a 

               massive table runs across the far end of the room, and aligned 

               on either side are the two rival factions of nobles, glaring 

               at each other. Old Craig is in the center, with young Robert 

               the Bruce on his right. There is a general MURMUR along the 

               nobles, and Robert whispers to Craig...

                                     ROBERT

                         Does anyone know his politics?

                                     CRAIG

                         No. But his weight with the commoners 

                         could unbalance everything. The 

                         Balliols will kiss his ass, so we 

                         must.

               A court STEWARDS steps in and formally announces...

                                     STEWARD

                         Lords of Scotland: Sir William 

                         Wallace!

               The nobles on each side of the table try to outdo each other 

               in their acclamation as Wallace strides in, flanked by Hamish, 

               Campbell, and Stephen, splendid in their tartans.

               Old Craig rises.

                                     CRAIG

                         Sir William. In the name of God, we 

                         declare and appoint thee High 

                         Protector of Scotland! And thy 

                         captains as aides decamp!

               The nobles rise; court attendants hurry to Wallace and drape 

               a golden chain of office around his neck. Wallace takes the 

               three smaller chains they bring and drapes them around the 

               necks of his friends, as once again the nobles applaud.

               Almost before the applause dies, a member of the BALLIOL 

               clan, who has kept an open seat beside him, speaks up...

                                     BALLIOL

                         Sir William!! Inasmuch as you and 

                         your captains hail from a region 

                         long known to support the Balliol 

                         clan, may we invite you to join us?

               But Wallace's gaze has locked onto Robert the Bruce, who 

               stares back, the two young lions instantly recognizing the 

               leadership power of each other.

                                     WALLACE

                         You are Robert the Bruce.

                                     ROBERT THE BRUCE

                         I am.

                                     WALLACE

                         My father fought in support of yours.

               The Balliols shrivel. The nobles on the Bruce side can barely 

               keep from grinning. Suddenly the men on the other end of the 

               table change their attack.

                                     BALLIOL

                         With this new success, the result of 

                         all of Scotland's efforts, now is 

                         the time to declare a king!

                                     MORNAY

                         Then you are prepared to recognize 

                         our legitimate succession!

                                     BALLIOL

                         You're the ones who won't support 

                         the true claim! I demand consideration 

                         of these documents!

               Wallace glances again at the Bruce, who suddenly feels ashamed 

               of the bickering.

                                     MORNAY

                         Those were lies when they were 

                         written! Our documents prove 

                         absolutely that --

               Suddenly Wallace turns his back and walks toward the door.

                                     CRAIG

                         Sir William! Where are you going?

                                     WILLIAM

                         We have beaten the English! But 

                         they'll come back, because you won't 

                         stand together. There is one clan in 

                         this country -- Scotsmen. One class -- 

                         free. One price -- courage.

               He turns again and strides toward the door.

                                     CRAIG

                         But... what will you do?

                                     WALLACE

                         I will invade England. And defeat 

                         the English on their own ground.

                                     CRAIG

                         Invade?! That's impossible, it --

               Wallace slings out his broadsword and moves down the length 

               of the table, bashing the succession documents into the laps 

               of the nobles.

                                     WALLACE

                         LISTEN TO ME! Longshanks understands 

                         this! This!

               He brandishes the broadsword.

                                     WALLACE

                         There is a difference between us. 

                         You think the people of this country 

                         exist to provide you with position. 

                         I think your position exists to 

                         provide the people with freedom. And 

                         I go to make sure they have it.

               Wallace bangs through the door. Suppressing smiles, his 

               friends file out behind him.

               INT. EDINBURGH CORRIDOR - DAY

               Wallace and his men are marching away, as Robert the Bruce 

               runs out after them.

                                     ROBERT

                         Wait! ...I respect what you said. 

                         But remember, these men have lands, 

                         castles. Much to risk.

                                     WALLACE

                         And the common man who bleeds on the 

                         battlefield, does he risk less?

                                     ROBERT

                         No. But from top to bottom this 

                         country has no sense of itself. Its 

                         nobles share allegiance with England 

                         and its clans war with each other. 

                         If you make enemies on both sides of 

                         the border, you'll end up dead.

                                     WALLACE

                         We all end up dead. It's only a 

                         question of how. And why.

               Wallace walks; Robert catches up and speaks to him in an 

               urgent half whisper, so that no one else can hear.

                                     ROBERT

                         I'm no coward! I want what you want! 

                         But we need the nobles.

                                     WALLACE

                         Nobles? What does that mean -- to be 

                         noble? Your title gives you claim to 

                         the throne of our country. But men 

                         don't follow titles, they follow 

                         courage! Your arm speaks louder than 

                         your tongue. Our people know you. 

                         Noble and common, they respect you. 

                         If you would lead them toward freedom, 

                         they would follow you. And so would 

                         I.

               Wallace walks away, leaving Robert the Bruce alone.

               THE SCOTTISH ARMY - DAY

               Wallace rides at the head of his army, moving through the 

               countryside of northern England. It is autumn, the foliage 

               is beautiful, the wheat fields gold with harvest.

               EXT. ESTABLISHING YORK CITY - DAY

               A medieval city guarded by a fortress.

               INT. THE FORTRESS - MAP ROOM - DAY

               The ROYAL GOVERNOR is a spoiled young man, Longshanks' nephew. 

               He is studying maps and written appeals for help; his CAPTAIN 

               of defenses strides in with another note.

                                     CAPTAIN

                         Message from your cousin, the Prince. 

                         He says London has no more troops to 

                         send.

                                     GOVERNOR

                         Every town in Northern England is 

                         begging for help! Where will Wallace 

                         strike first?

                                     CAPTAIN

                         I should think these smaller 

                         settlements along the border...

               They hear shouts as a rider arrives and dismounts. They look 

               out to see a panicked RIDER, who shouts up...

                                     RIDER

                         He advances!

                                     GOVERNOR

                         To what town?

                                     RIDER

                         He comes here!

                                                                  SMASH TO:

               CARTS, RUMBLING IN PANIC DOWN A ROAD

               as civilians flee the walled city in the distance.

               THE SCOTTISH ARMY

               has cut a huge tree and placed it on wheels. It rumbles 

               ominously TOWARD CAMERA...

               THE CIVILIAN PANIC CONTINUES as more people join the swell 

               of those leaving York.

               THE SCOTTISH ARMY keeps coming on.

               INSIDE THE WALLS OF THE CITY - DAY

               The governor is furious and confused.

                                     GOVERNOR

                         We will not allow a bandit to panic 

                         the greatest city in Northern England! 

                         Close off the escapes! Let no one 

                         leave!

                                     CAPTAIN

                         The city has emptied already, Sire. 

                         Only the Scottish civilians remain.

               The Governor turns to his captain with a look worthy of his 

               uncle, Longshanks the King.

               ON THE BATTERING RAM

               as it picks up speed and SLAMS into the wooden gate of the 

               city. With the collision, THE BATTLE IS ON. It's a night 

               battle: torches, flaming arrows, pots of boiling oil being 

               splashed down at the attackers, who swarm the gate.

               The oil beats the first wave of Scots back, but Wallace rushes 

               forward, grabbing the ram cart with his own hands; the 

               attackers rally to him, helping him slam the gate again and 

               again. It breaks; but behind it is an awful tangle of carts, 

               broken sheds, impenetrable rubbish. Wallace grabs a torch, 

               throws it into the wooden tangle, and shouts --

                                     WALLACE

                         Back! Wait for it to burn!

               INSIDE THE CITY

               The Captain hurries into the tower room.

                                     CAPTAIN

                         They've breached the wall!

                                     GOVERNOR

                         Then do as I ordered.

               OUTSIDE THE WALLS

               The Scots wait, biding their time as the barrier burns.

               Suddenly they look up in horror; the English are throwing 

               the bodies of hanged Scots over the wall.

               They stare at this in mute shock. Wallace is frozen, his 

               eyes reflecting his boyhood reaction. His men rush forward.

                                     WALLACE

                         STOP! NOT YET! LISTEN TO ME!

                              (beat)

                         They wish to frighten us! Or goad us 

                         into attacking too soon! Don't look 

                         away! LOOK!

               The Scots look at the hanging bodies.

                                     WALLACE

                         Behold the enemy we fight! We will 

                         be more merciful than they have been. 

                         We will spare women, children, and 

                         priests. For all else, no mercy.

               Wallace draws his broadsword. The burning debris inside the 

               gate collapses, leaving a tunnel through the fire. Wallace 

               screams, and leads the charge through the burning barrier.

               INT. THE PALACE IN LONDON - DAY

               Prince Edward and Phillip, his fencing friend and lover, 

               hear a contingent of horsemen clatter into the courtyard 

               below; they look out the window and see the arrival of 

               Longshanks.

               They lean back into the room and Edward begins to pace 

               nervously.

                                     PHILLIP

                         It is not your fault! Stand up to 

                         him.

               Edward shows Phillip the dagger he has concealed in his belt 

               behind his back.

                                     EDWARD

                         I will stand up to him, and more.

               Longshanks bangs the door open and stalks in angrily. First 

               he glares at Phillip with obvious loathing, then turns his 

               piercing stare to his own son.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         What news of the north?

                                     EDWARD

                         Nothing new, Majesty. We have sent 

                         riders to speed any word.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         While I am in France fighting to 

                         expand your future kingdom I learn 

                         that Stirling castle is lost, our 

                         entire northern army wiped out! And 

                         you have done nothing?!

                                     EDWARD

                         I have ordered conscriptions...

               A messenger enters and hands the prince a message. Edward 

               reads it and nearly loses his balance.

                                     EDWARD

                         Wallace has sacked York!

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Impossible.

                              (to messenger)

                         How dare you bring a panicky lie.

               The messenger has also brought a basket. He approaches the 

               central table with great dread and places the basket on it, 

               uncovering its contents. Prince Edward is closest; he looks 

               in, then staggers back, stunned. Longshanks moves to the 

               sack coldly, looks in, and withdraws the severed head of his 

               nephew, York's (former) Governor.

                                     PHILLIP

                         Sire! Thy own nephew! What beast 

                         could do such a thing?!

               The king drops the head back into the sack, unmoved.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         If he can sack York, he can invade 

                         lower England.

                                     PHILLIP

                         We would stop him!

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Edward, who is this shitpoker who 

                         speaks to me as if I needed his 

                         advice?

                                     EDWARD

                         I have declared Phillip my High 

                         Counselor.

               Longshanks nods as if impressed. He moves to Phillip and 

               examines the gold chain of office that the young man wears.

               Then Longshanks grabs him and throws him out the window, the 

               same one Edward and Phillip were looking out, six stories 

               above the courtyard. We hear Phillip's SCREAM as he falls.

               Edward rushes toward the window in horror. He looks out at 

               the result, turns back toward his father in shock and hatred, 

               and only then remembers the dagger and goes for it.

               He stabs at Longshanks; the old king smiles at the attack, 

               parrying, letting his arms be cut.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         You fight back at last!

               Then Longshanks unleashes his own hateful fury; he grapples 

               with Edward, knocking the dagger away and hurling him to the 

               floor; then Longshanks kicks his son, again and again. He 

               exhausts his fury on him.

               Edward is a bloody mess; Longshanks coughs up a bit of blood.

               He ignores it and his son's wreckage, and goes back to the 

               discussion, as if this fight was normal business.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         We must sue for a truce, and buy him 

                         off. But who will go to him? Not I. 

                         If I came under the sword of this 

                         murderer, I would end up like my 

                         nephew. And not you, the sight of my 

                         faggot son would only encourage an 

                         enemy to take over this country. So 

                         whom do I send?

               Longshanks calculates.

               EXT. WALLACE ARMY CAMP - DAY

               A full encampment, across an English field; campfires chase 

               the dawn chill. Soldiers sharpen swords and spear points.

               Wallace is huddled with his inner circle, all except Campbell, 

               who receives a report from a scout.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         A royal entourage comes, flying 

                         banners of truce, and the standards 

                         of Longshanks himself!

               Wallace buckles on his sword.

               AN ENGLISH PAVILION TENT - YORKSHIRE - DAY

               Set up for a meeting in a sunny meadow. Wallace and his men 

               ride in, wary, ready for ambush. They surround the tent.

               There are two dozen royal soldiers there, but they make no 

               threatening moves.

               No sound from the tent. Wallace rests his hand on the handle 

               of his broadsword, ready.

                                     WALLACE

                         Longshanks! I have come.

               Servants pull back the sides of the tent door, and a tall, 

               slender, shapely female figure appears there. There in the 

               shadows, she looks just like Marion! William is not the only 

               one who notices the resemblance; he glances at Hamish and 

               Campbell and sees them haunted by it too. Is this another 

               dream? He pales, as she steps into the morning sun. She moves 

               toward him, her face lowered. It is Marion!

               She reaches him, lifts her face... and he sees the Princess!

               William is relieved -- and yet as he sees the Princess more 

               closely he is still shaken by the resemblance in the way she 

               carries herself, her shape, the fall of her hair.

               The Princess is struck with Wallace, too -- tall, powerful, 

               and commanding. Wallace dismounts, and moves to face her.

               Their eyes hang on each other. She sees something that she 

               has not seen in the face of a man in her whole life.

               She surprises him by bending at the knee, in a half-submissive 

               yet proud curtsey.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I am the Princess of Wales.

                                     WALLACE

                         Wife of Edward, the king's son?

               She nods; somehow she is already ashamed.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I come as the king's servant, and 

                         with his authority.

                                     WALLACE

                         It's battle I want, not talk.

                                     PRINCESS

                         But now that I am here, will you 

                         speak with a woman?

               She leads him under the pavilion, a purple canopy shading 

               rich carpets laid on the bare ground. Watching the gorgeous 

               walk, Stephen lies back on his saddle and twitches his leg 

               like a horny dog. Hamish backhands him; Campbell, Hamish and 

               Stephen quickly dismount and follow the procession, 

               shouldering their way in beside the Princess's French guards, 

               so they can watch Wallace's back. The rest of the Scots 

               surround the tent, ready for ambush.

               Nicolette is among the royal attendants there; seeing Wallace, 

               she shoots a glance at the Princess that says Ooo-La-La! The 

               servants have brought a throne for the Princess, a lower 

               chair for Wallace. She sits; he refuses the chair.

               She studies him, taking in his anger and his pride.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I understand that you have recently 

                         been given the rank of knight.

                                     WALLACE

                         I have been given nothing. God makes 

                         men what they are.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Did God make you the sacker of 

                         peaceful cities? The executioner of 

                         the king's nephew, my husband's own 

                         cousin?

                                     WALLACE

                         York was the staging point for every 

                         invasion of my country. And that 

                         royal cousin hanged a hundred Scots, 

                         even women and children, from the 

                         city walls.

                                     PRINCESS

                         That is not possible.

               But knowing Longshanks' family, she glances at a richly 

               dressed Advisor, a CRONY of the king, who averts his eyes.

                                     WALLACE

                         Longshanks did far worse, the last 

                         time he took a Scottish city.

               The Crony mumbles to her in LATIN, WITH SUBTITLES...

                                     CRONY

                              (Latin)

                         He is a murdering bandit, he lies.

                                     WALLACE

                              (Latin!)

                         I am no bandit. And I do not lie.

               They are startled at Wallace's fluency in Latin.

                                     WALLACE

                         Or in French if you prefer that: 

                         Certainmous et ver! Ask your king to 

                         his face, and see if his eyes can 

                         convince you of the truth.

               She stares for a long moment at Wallace's eyes.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Hamilton, leave us.

                                     CRONY (HAMILTON)

                         M'lady --

                                     PRINCESS

                         Leave us now.

               He reluctantly obeys. Seeing that she wants the exchange to 

               be private, Wallace turns and nods for his men to leave.

               Stephen, who has been admiring the lady's beauty non-stop, 

               leans in and whispers to William...

                                     STEPHEN

                         Her husband's more of a queen than 

                         she is. Did you know that?

               Stephen moves off with Hamish and Campbell. Wallace and the 

               princess are left alone.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Let us talk plainly. You invade 

                         England. But you cannot complete the 

                         conquest, so far from your shelter 

                         and supply. The King proposes that 

                         you withdraw your attack. In return 

                         he grants you title, estates, and 

                         this chest with a thousand pounds of 

                         gold, which I am to pay to you 

                         personally.

                                     WALLACE

                         A Lordship. And gold. That I should 

                         become Judas.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Peace is made is such ways.

                                     WALLACE

                         SLAVES ARE MADE IN SUCH WAYS!

               The outburst startles even those watching from a distance.

               The Princess is mesmerized by Wallace's passion.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I understand you have suffered. I 

                         know... about your woman.

                                     WALLACE

                         She was my wife. We married in secret 

                         because I would not share her with 

                         an English lord. They killed her to 

                         get to me. And she was pregnant.

               The Princess is stunned; Wallace is dead still.

                                     WALLACE

                         I've never told anyone. I don't know 

                         why I tell you -- except because you 

                         look... much like her. And someday 

                         you will be a queen, and you must 

                         open your eyes!

                              (beat)

                         Tell your king that William Wallace 

                         will not be ruled. Nor will any Scot, 

                         while I live.

               The Princess rises slowly from her chair, moves in front of 

               him, and lowers herself to her knees. The Crony and her other 

               attendants, seeing this from a distance, are shocked.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Sir. I leave this money, as a gift. 

                         Not from the king, but from myself. 

                         And not to you, but to the orphans 

                         of your country.

               She lifts her face. Their eyes hold a moment too long.

               LATER, EXT. FIELD - DAY

               Wallace and his captains sit on horseback at the head of 

               their company and watch as the Princess' procession leaves.

               Hamish studies Wallace's face; Wallace notices and gives him 

               a non-committal shrug. As the carriage rolls away, its window 

               curtains lift back slightly. All they see are the Princess' 

               fingers, but they know she looked back. Wallace reins his 

               horse away, to ride back to camp.

               INT. EDWARD'S PALACE - DAY

               The doors open; the Princess enters Longshanks' war council; 

               Prince Edward is there, among a dozen others.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         My son's loyal wife returns, unkilled 

                         by the heathen. So he accepted our 

                         bribe.

                                     PRINCESS

                         No. He did not.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Then why does he stay? My scouts say 

                         he has not advanced.

                                     PRINCESS

                         He waits. For you. He says he will 

                         attack no more towns -- if you are 

                         man enough to come fight him.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         You spoke with this Wallace in 

                         private. What kind of man is he?

                                     PRINCESS

                         ...A mindless barbarian. Not a king 

                         like you, M'lord.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         The Scottish nobles have sent him no 

                         support. His army starves. Our stall 

                         has worked, he must withdraw. You 

                         may return to your embroidery.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Humbly, M'lord.

               She barely curtseys, and starts out.

                                     EDWARD

                         You brought back the money, of course?

               He already knows she didn't; Hamilton is standing near him.

                                     PRINCESS

                         No. I have it to ease the suffering 

                         of the children of this war.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                              (glances at son)

                         This is what happens when you must 

                         send a woman. And a fool.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Forgive me, Sire. I thought that 

                         generosity might demonstrate your 

                         greatness to those you mean to rule.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         My greatness is better demonstrated 

                         with this.

               From a box at his feet the king withdraws a crossbow and 

               throws it onto the table. Most of those there are shocked.

                                     EDWARD

                         The weapon has been outlawed by the 

                         Pope himself!

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         So the Scots will have none of them, 

                         will they? My armorers have already 

                         made a thousand.

               Longshanks smiles. No one notices that the Princess is deadly 

               pale.

               EXT. WALLACE ARMY CAMP - DAY

               The Scots are lining up to leave their encampment. Wallace 

               is about to give the signal to start the march when Hamish, 

               beside him, comes alert; a small group of riders in 

               distinctive attire are coming toward them; what can this be?

                                     HAMISH

                         William -- French guards?

               The riders stop at a distance, and out from their ranks comes 

               a single rider, sitting sidesaddle. It is Nicolette.

               Wallace and Hamish recognize her from the Princess's visit.

               She trots her horse the rest of the way, while the French 

               guards stay back. Hamish helps her from her horse. She moves 

               to Wallace, and opens the heavy folds of her heavy riding 

               cape.

               Secreted there, hung from a rope at her neck, is a crossbow.

               EXT. A FIELD IN SCOTLAND - DAY

               Wallace has gathered the nobles, among them Robert the Bruce, 

               Mornay, and old Craig, for a demonstration. Hamish and Stephen 

               have placed a spearman's chestplate against a bale of hay. 

               As William cranks the crossbow to its full cocked position 

               and places a bolt in its slot, Stephen tucks a melon behind 

               the armor.

               William aims... and fires. The bolt slashes through the air 

               and punches through the armor and the melon, leaving no doubt 

               what it would do to a man's heart. The nobles pale.

                                     CRAIG

                         That is why the Pope outlawed the 

                         weapon! It makes war too terrible.

                                     MORNAY

                         How many does Longshanks have?

                                     WALLACE

                         A thousand.

                              (beat)

                         You have made me Guardian of Scotland. 

                         So I tell you this is what we face.

                                     CRAIG

                         We must sue for peace.

                                     WALLACE

                         Peace?!

                                     CRAIG

                         We cannot defeat this --

                                     WALLACE

                         With cavalry -- not heavy, like the 

                         English, but light, fast horsemen, 

                         like you nobles employ -- we could 

                         outmaneuver their bowmen!

                                     CRAIG

                         It is suicide.

                                     ROBERT

                         Sir William --

               The Bruce sees Wallace about to explode, and tries to 

               intervene -- but Wallace's anger is too great.

                                     WALLACE

                         We won at Stirling and still you 

                         quibbled! We won at York and you 

                         would not support us! Then I said 

                         nothing! Now I say you are cowards!

               The nobles grip their weapons; Wallace, Hamish and Stephen 

               are ready to finish this quarrel right here. Robert the Bruce, 

               backed by Mornay, steps between the two sides.

                                     ROBERT

                         Please, Sir William! Speak with me 

                         alone! I beg you!

               The nobles stalk away, and Robert draws Wallace away, to the 

               target Wallace shot, so they are alone.

                                     ROBERT

                         You have achieved more than anyone 

                         dreamed. But fighting these odds 

                         looks like rage, not courage. Peace 

                         offers its rewards! Has war become a 

                         habit you cannot break?

               The question strikes deep.

                                     WALLACE

                         War finds me willing. I know it won't 

                         bring back all I have lost. But it 

                         can bring what none of us have ever 

                         had -- a country of our own. For 

                         that we need a king. We need you.

                                     ROBERT

                         I am trying.

                                     WALLACE

                         Then tell me what a king is! Is he a 

                         man who believes only what others 

                         believe? Is he one who calculates 

                         the numbers for and against him but 

                         never weighs the strength in your 

                         own heart? There is strength in you. 

                         I see it. I know it.

                                     ROBERT

                         I must... consult with my father.

                                     WALLACE

                         And I will consult with mine.

               Robert the Bruce walks off the field, heading the way the 

               other nobles went. Wallace rejoins Hamish and Stephen. They 

               look to him; what do we do now?

                                     WALLACE

                         Remember when the English turned 

                         their hounds on us? Maybe we should 

                         introduce them to our dogs.

               INT. THE DARKENED ROOM OF BRUCE THE ELDER, THE LEPER

               In the faint nimbus of the single candle, young Robert sits 

               across from his leper father. The son grips his own head, as 

               if stunned by a blow.

                                     ROBERT

                         This... cannot be the way.

                                     THE LEPER

                         You have said yourself that the nobles 

                         will not support Wallace, so how 

                         does it help us to join the side 

                         that is slaughtered?

               Heartsick, the father reaches across the table, then stays 

               his arm, unwilling to touch his son with his leprous hand.

                                     THE LEPER

                         My son. Look at me. I cannot be king. 

                         You, and you alone, can rule Scotland. 

                         What I tell you, you must do -- for 

                         yourself, and for your country.

               Young Robert holds his father with his eyes, and does not 

               look away.

               EXT. THE BATTLE OF FALKIRK - DAY

               The Scottish army moves out onto the hilly plain, covered in 

               the gray mists. They see glimpses of the enemy in the 

               distance. Wallace deploys the Scots: Campbell with the 

               schiltrons (spear formations), Stephen with the infantry, 

               the noble Mornay leading the cavalry, and with Wallace and 

               Hamish on horseback, looking over the field. Hamish sees 

               gazing up at an empty hill above the field.

                                     HAMISH

                         The Bruce is not coming, William.

                                     WALLACE

                         Mornay has come. So will the Bruce.

               He'd better, the odds look long. And it's nasty ground; one 

               side of the field is ankle deep in water, and the English 

               are covering it with a layer of burning oil, releasing thick 

               smoke to hide their movements.

                                     WALLACE

                         Stephen ready?

                                     HAMISH

                         Aye.

               The Priest from their home village is moving through the 

               Scottish ranks, dispensing absolution. He reaches the two 

               friends, who accept the Host, say their own last prayers, 

               and give each other a look of goodbye. Hamish rides off to 

               join the schiltrons.

               LONGSHANKS AND HIS GENERALS

               on the opposite side of the field, send their army forward.

               WALLACE AND THE SCOTS

               see them through the smoke; Wallace spots what he's looking 

               for: there they are, the ranks of crossbowmen!

               And as they draw nearer, Wallace hears a haunting noise. He 

               sees the bowmen more clearly, and the English infantry. Some 

               are wearing kilts and marching to bagpipes.

                                     WALLACE

                         Irish troops!

               STEPHEN OF IRELAND, WITH THE SCOTTISH INFANTRY

               He stares at the approach of his countrymen. Wallace appears 

               beside him. Stephen sees him, and is ashamed.

                                     STEPHEN

                         So that's where Longshanks got his 

                         soldiers. Irishmen, willing to kill 

                         Scottish cousins for the English.

                                     WILLIAM

                         Their families are starving, they'll 

                         feed them however they can. If you 

                         don't want to fight them --

                                     STEPHEN

                         No. I'll stand with you.

               Loyal to the end. Wallace signals to Hamish and Campbell, 

               among the schiltrons. The formations, bristling with spears, 

               move forward. Hamish looks back at Wallace; both men know 

               the spearmen are the bait here. Wallace and Stephen see the 

               English heavy cavalry advancing.

                                     STEPHEN

                         They can't be that stupid to attack 

                         the schiltrons again.

               Wallace is scanning the battlefield. He sees the English 

               cavalry charge, but before they reach the bristling spears, 

               they pull up, and crossbowmen, moving up behind the knights.

                                     WALLACE

                         It's only a faint to shield the 

                         crossbows!

               The crossbowmen fire a volley, too hurriedly. We see the 

               hailstorm of bolts slash through the air in unison -- you 

               can actually see them coming. The bows fall short of the 

               front ranks of the schiltrons.

                                     WALLACE

                         Now! Give 'em the dogs!

               Stephen signals, and up the slope behind them come handlers 

               with ten war dogs.

               Huge mastiffs, they wear steel collars, with razor sharp 

               protrusions. Their handlers hold them at the end of long 

               catch poles. The crossbowmen are distracted from their 

               reloading by the appearance of the mastiffs; now, as the 

               Scottish handlers run toward the English ranks and unleash 

               the dogs, fear races through the English line.

               The dogs tear into them. It is chaos; the bowmen can't flee, 

               and as the dogs mix among them, the bowmen fire frantically, 

               mostly hitting each other. The dogs' collars slash legs; 

               their jaws crush bones; even when their back legs are hacked 

               off, the frenzied dogs keep killing.

               Wallace signals to Mornay with the Scottish cavalry. Mornay 

               does nothing. The crossbowmen, though taking great punishment, 

               are beginning to overwhelm the dogs by sheer numbers, and 

               are regrouping.

                                     WALLACE

                         Now! Charge! Charge them!

               Mornay tugs his reins and leads his cavalry away.

               AT THE ENGLISH COMMAND

               Longshanks and his officers see Mornay and his cavalry melt 

               away. The English general looks knowingly at Longshanks.

                                     GENERAL

                         Mornay?

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         For double his lands in Scotland, 

                         and matching estates in England.

               WALLACE, WITH STEPHEN

               They see the Scottish army abandoned.

                                     STEPHEN

                         Betrayed!

               Wallace glances to the other hilltop; still no sign of Bruce.

               He looks on in agony as the crossbowmen unleash another 

               volley. The Scottish spearmen, bunched in a tight group, are 

               helpless. The bolts fall, cutting through their helmets and 

               breastplates like paper. Wallace has no cavalry -- and his 

               men are being slaughtered! He spurs his horse, and Stephen 

               and the infantrymen race behind him.

               The English heavy cavalry surge to meet them, but Wallace 

               weaves through them, dodging with his horse, slashing with 

               the broadsword, cutting down on knight, another, another...

               The Scottish infantry claws in, dragging down the horses, 

               hacking the knights as they run by.

               The English bowmen are about to fire again, but they see the 

               Scottish charge bearing down on them and adjust their aim; 

               the bolts cut into the infantrymen; one bolt tears off the 

               armor of Wallace's left shoulder. He wobbles on his horse, 

               regains his balance, and keeps up the charge.

               AT THE ENGLISH COMMAND

               Longshanks and his generals are watching the action.

                                     GENERAL

                         My God, and still they come!

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Use the reinforcements! But take 

                         Wallace alive!

               The General signals and the English reinforcements surge 

               into the battle.

               IN THE THICK OF THE BATTLE

               On horseback, Wallace fights his way into the watery edge of 

               the field, where English infantry is now overrunning the 

               schiltron. He hacks men down left and right, reaches the 

               Scottish center, and finds Hamish bending over another 

               soldier. Wallace dismounts.

                                     WALLACE

                         Hamish! Ham --

               And Wallace sees that Hamish is holding his father, fallen 

               in battle. Wallace has no time to react; he cuts down and 

               English swordsman moving in to hack Hamish's back. Wallace 

               lifts Campbell across the saddle, and shouts at Hamish...

                                     WALLACE

                         Get him away!

               Hamish obeys, jumping onto the horse and galloping back toward 

               the rear. Wallace fights with new vengeance, swinging the 

               double-edged broadsword with deadly accuracy.

               Rallied by Wallace's presence, the Scots surge back. Then 

               Wallace sees the English reinforcement cavalry coming.

                                     WALLACE

                         A charge! Form up! Form up!

               The Scots pull up spears and hastily form another schiltron.

               The spears bristle out, ready... the English horsemen thunder 

               in. But before the spears impale the horses, another flight 

               of crossbow bolts cuts down half the Scots still fighting.

               Hamish reaches the rear of the battle and lowers the limp 

               body of his father to the Scottish monks who are attending 

               to the wounded and giving absolution to the dying...

               Still Wallace fights back, meeting the English charge. The 

               Scots hold their own. An English knight tries to ride over 

               William; he knocks the lance aside, and tough the horse slams 

               into him, William also unseats the rider.

               The rider rolls to his feet. William struggles up to meet 

               him -- and comes face to face with Robert the Bruce.

               The shock and recognition stun Wallace; in that moment, 

               looking at Robert the Bruce's guilt-ridden face, he 

               understands everything: the betrayal, the hopelessness of 

               Scotland. As he stands there frozen, a bolt punches into the 

               muscle of his neck, and Wallace doesn't react to it.

               Bruce is horrified at the sight of Wallace this way. He 

               batters at Wallace's sword, as if its use would give him 

               absolution.

                                     ROBERT

                         Fight me! Fight me!

               But Wallace can only stagger back. Bruce's voice grows ragged 

               as he screams.

                                     ROBERT

                         FIGHT ME!

               All around, the battle has decayed; the Scots are being 

               slaughtered. Another bolt glances off Wallace's helmet; a 

               third rips into his thigh plate, making his legs collapse.

               Suddenly Stephen comes through the melee, on Robert's horse!

               He hits Robert from behind, knocking him down, and jumps to 

               the ground to try and lift William onto the horse!

               Robert sees a knot of crossbowmen moving up, sighting out 

               Wallace, taking careful aim! Bruce leaps up and helps Stephen 

               sling Wallace onto the back of the horse, even covers him 

               with his shield, deflecting another bolt fired at Wallace, 

               as Stephen mounts too.

               As the horse plunges away into the smoke, Robert falls to 

               the water. His own troops reach him, realize who he is, see 

               the horrible expression on his face, and race on after the 

               Scots.

               Robert is left alone, on his knees in the water, the fire 

               and noise of battle now dim to him, as if his senses have 

               died along with his heart.

               LONGSHANKS

               Looks over the battlefield, strewn with the bodies of the 

               Scottish dead. For now, he is satisfied.

               EXT. ROAD - SUNSET

               Remnants of the defeated army straggle past. Wallace and 

               Stephen are trying to help Hamish carry his father, but now 

               old Campbell says...

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Son... I want to die on the ground.

               But as they tilt old Campbell onto the ground, he grabs at 

               something that starts to fall from the wound in his stomach.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         Whew. That'll clear your sinuses. 

                         Goodbye, boys.

                                     HAMISH

                         No. You're going to live.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         I don't think I can do without one 

                         of those... whatever it is...

               Hamish is too grief-stricken to speak.

                                     WALLACE

                         You... were like my father...

               Old Campbell rallies one more time for this.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         ...And glad to die, like him... So 

                         you could be the men you are. All of 

                         ya.

               The last three words to Hamish, telling him he's a hero too.

                                     CAMPBELL

                         I'm a happy man.

               Hamish is weeping. When he looks up again, his father has 

               died. We PULL BACK from them in tableaux, with the army, the 

               people of Scotland, the whole gray world in defeat.

               INT. EDINBURGH CASTLE - DAY

               Wallace, still bloody and in his battered armor, removes the 

               chain of office from beneath his breastplate, lays it onto 

               the table in front of Craig and the other nobles, and walks 

               from the room. Hamish and Stephen see the satisfaction on 

               the nobles' face, and follow William out.

               INT. CASTLE CORRIDOR - DAY

               Hamish and Stephen move out into the hallway after Wallace -- 

               but he is gone.

               EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

               Wallace is in the woods, in the grove of trees, looking at 

               Marion's hidden grave. The rain falls on his face, like tears. 

               But he has no tears of his own. The cold, the icy rain, the 

               wounds, nothing seems to touch him.

               With his fingertips he carefully draws her embroidered cloth 

               from beneath his breastplate; hanging in his trembling hands, 

               filthy with the grime and gore of battle, it looks impossibly 

               white, something from a better, purer world.

                                                               DISSOLVE TO:

               INT. PALACE IN LONDON - NIGHT

               Thunder, the sound of driving rain. Snug by a massive fire 

               are Longshanks, his son Edward, and other advisors. On the 

               far side of the room, away from the fire, the Princess stands 

               at the window and watches the rain against the panes.

                                     ADVISOR

                         Their nobles have sworn allegiance, 

                         M'lord. Every last one.

               Longshanks savors the victory -- and gloats to his son.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Now we kill two birds at one stroke. 

                         We recruit from Scotland for our 

                         armies in France.

                                     EDWARD

                         The Scots will fight for us?

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         What choice do they have? Now they 

                         must serve us or starve.

                                     EDWARD

                         But if we have not caught Wallace --

                                     LONGSHANKS

                              (exploding)

                         He is gone! Finished! Dead! If he 

                         has not yet bled to death or had his 

                         throat cut for him, he will not 

                         survive the winter. It is very cold -- 

                         is it not, our flower?

               From the other side of the window, we see the Princess as 

               she hears him, but doesn't turn around. She looks at the 

               window, we snow swirling among the raindrops outside. Her 

               eyes glisten, and her breath fogs the glass.

               INT. BRUCE'S DARKENED CHAMBER

               The elder Bruce, his decaying features sagging from his face, 

               stares across the table at his son.

                                     LEPER

                         I am the one who is rotting. But I 

                         think your face looks graver than 

                         mine.

                                     ROBERT

                         He was so brave. With courage alone 

                         he nearly won.

                                     LEPER

                         So more men were slaughtered 

                         uselessly!

                                     ROBERT

                         He broke because of me. I saw it. He 

                         lost all will to fight.

                                     LEPER

                         We must have alliance with England 

                         to prevail here. You achieved that! 

                         You saved your family, increased 

                         your lands! In time you will have 

                         all the power in Scotland!... Yet 

                         you grieve.

                                     ROBERT

                         In my heart I had begun to hope that 

                         he would never break.

                                     LEPER

                         All men lose heart. All betray. It 

                         is exactly why we must make the 

                         choices we make.

               INT. MORNAY'S CASTLE - NIGHT

               Mornay, in an opulent bedchamber hung with tapestries and 

               carpeted with eastern rugs, lies in bed, tossing in the 

               restless sleep of a tortured soul.

               He thinks he hears galloping. In SUBLIMINAL FLASHES he DREAMS 

               of Wallace riding toward him.

               He wakes, and listens to a strange noise. It is hoofbeats!

               Coming closer. He hears shouts too, screams from below -- 

               and those strange, approaching hoofbeats...

               WALLACE, ON HORSEBACK

               rides up the circular stairs inside Mornay's castle! His 

               horse bounds up the stone -- Mornay's guards are behind him, 

               on foot, pursuing.

               At a landing, Wallace cuts down a guard, and gallops higher.

               IN HIS BED, MORNAY

               sits up gawking as the door explodes inward and Wallace rides 

               through! Mornay is frozen. Wallace slashes him down.

               Out in the corridor, the guards gather; they have Wallace 

               trapped. He covers the horse's eyes with a cloth and spurs 

               his flanks. The blind animal runs through the window!

               EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT - SLOW MOTION

               The horse and rider plunge past the sheer walls of the 

               castle... and into the loch! Mornay's guards and the castle 

               servants cluster at the windows to see Wallace and the horse 

               surface, and swim to the shore, escaping!

               EXT. SCOTTISH VILLAGE - DAY

               The news has spread through the countryside. In the town 

               square, drunken Scotsmen chant...

                                     PEOPLE

                         Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!

               Old Craig rides past them, heading toward the Bruce's castle 

               on the hill above the town.

               INT. BRUCE CASTLE - DAY

               Robert is in his central room; he hears the chanting from 

               far below. Old Craig enters.

                                     ROBERT

                         Is it true about Mornay?

               Craig hands him the bloody nightshirt Mornay was wearing.

                                     ROBERT

                         And he rode through the window? My 

                         God.

               He can't hide his admiration. From below, he still hears the 

               people CHANTING...

               EXT. LONDON - GARDENS - DAY

               Longshanks and Edward are in the royal gardens, resplendent 

               with spring. Longshanks pulls a new flower, and crushes it.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         His legend grows! It will be worse 

                         than before!

                                     EDWARD

                         You let Wallace escape your whole 

                         army. You cannot blame me for this.

               Longshanks glowers at his son; the Princess arrives.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Good day to you, M'Lords.

                                     EDWARD

                         You mock us with a smile?

                                     PRINCESS

                         I am cheerful with a plan to soothe 

                         your miseries. All of England shudders 

                         with the news of renewed rebellion.

                                     EDWARD

                         Wallace's followers.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Wallace himself. If you wish to 

                         pretend a ghost rallies new volunteers 

                         in every Scottish town, I leave you 

                         to your hauntings. If you wish to 

                         take him, I know a way.

               Edward snickers in derision -- but his wife is steel.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I have faced him. Have you?

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         Let her speak.

                                     PRINCESS

                         He will fight you forever. But what 

                         does he fight for? Freedom first, 

                         and peace. So grant them.

                                     EDWARD

                         The little cow is insane --

                                     PRINCESS

                         Grant, as you do everything else, 

                         with treachery. Offer him a truce to 

                         discuss terms, and send me to my 

                         castle at Locharmbie as your emissary. 

                         He trusts me. Pick thirty of your 

                         finest assassins for me to take along. 

                         And I will set the meeting, and the 

                         ambush.

                                     LONGSHANKS

                         You see, my delicate son? I have 

                         picked you a Queen.

               EXT. THE PRINCESS' SCOTTISH CASTLE - DAY

               Locharmbie is a small, picturesque castle on a hillside. As 

               the queen's entourage moves through the gates, they close 

               behind her. She steps out of the carriage and moves into

               INT. CASTLE - THE GREAT HALL - DAY

               Inside the great hall are thirty killers, led by their CHIEF 

               ASSASSIN, a cutthroat with a mangled eye.

                                     CHIEF ASSASSIN

                         We came in small groups, so the rebels 

                         would not suspect.

                                     PRINCESS

                         And you have reached Wallace's men?

                                     CHIEF ASSASSIN

                         We tell the villagers, and the 

                         traitors pass it on. All that's left 

                         is for you to say where.

               EXT. MARION'S GROVE - NIGHT

               Wallace is in the grove of trees where Marion is buried.

               Drinking in the silence, his own isolation. He hears a RUSTLE 

               behind him, and spins, drawing the broadsword. Then his face 

               registers... it's Hamish and Stephen.

               Hamish is unsure if he did the right thing in coming here -- 

               unsure, until Wallace moves to them, and hugs them.

               INT. CAVE - NIGHT

               They are in the old secret cave; rain is falling, but it's 

               dry inside, with a campfire smoldering at the entrance.

                                     WALLACE

                         Thanks for the food and drink. And 

                         for bringing 'em yourselves.

                                     HAMISH

                         We're here to stay. We don't care to 

                         live, if we can't fight beside ya.

               Stephen pulls a jug of whiskey from his pocket. He swigs, 

               hands it to Hamish for a chug, then to Wallace, who declines, 

               but smiles for the first time in many weeks.

                                     HAMISH

                         There is... one thing, William. 

                         Longshanks is offering a truce. He 

                         has dispatched his daughter-in-law 

                         as his emissary, and she has sent 

                         word that she wishes to meet you -- 

                         in a barn.

               Wallace frowns; a barn?

               EXT. A BARN IN THE SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

               Hauntingly similar to the one in Wallace's childhood. As he 

               sits on his horse and looks at the place, surmounted by a 

               white flag of truce, it gives him a chill. But in full view 

               of the barn, he hands Hamish his sword and rides forward.

               INSIDE THE BARN

               are the assassins, killing knives ready.

                                     CHIEF ASSASSIN

                         It's William Wallace, sure! And... 

                         he's given up his sword! Be ready!

               They position themselves at every entrance.

               OUTSIDE THE BARN

               Wallace reaches the barn, dismounts, and moves toward the 

               door. But suddenly, instead of entering, he grabs the heavy 

               bar and seals the door! At this motion, Scots spring from 

               the woods in all directions. The assassins inside realize 

               the ambush is being turned on them, but it's too late; they 

               hear the entrance being sealed from the outside.

               More Scots, led by Stephen, scramble up from hiding, place 

               tinder-dry brush and pitch against the barn, and set it on 

               fire. In moments the entire barn is blazing. The Scots stand 

               back and watch the barn burn, their faces lit by the flames. 

               After awhile, there are no more screams from inside.

               EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT

               The Princess sees the burning off in the distance, like a 

               bonfire. She stands on the wall, looking out at it. And then 

               she sees, on a hillside, silhouetted against the night and 

               the fire, a rider, just sitting there on his horse, looking 

               at the castle. She runs into the castle, up the stairs, and 

               stands on the pinnacle of the castle, so that she too is 

               silhouetted, and he can see her.

               The lone rider is William Wallace.

               CLOSE - A CANDLE

               being placed in a window of the stable cottage, built into 

               the outer wall of the castle. AT A DISTANCE, the candle burns 

               like a tiny beacon. And William sees it.

               INSIDE THE STABLE COTTAGE, THE PRINCESS

               sits alone, wondering if her signal is going to work.

               OUTSIDE THE CASTLE

               Wallace climbs the castle wall, hand over hand up the mortared 

               stones, to the window twenty feet above the ground.

               He reaches the safety of the window cove and kneels on the 

               ledge. He looks through the window, and sees her inside.

               INSIDE THE ROOM, she looks up, and sees him there. The first 

               glance frightens her, and yet she expected him, prayed for 

               him to come. Now, for a long, long moment the two of them 

               look at each other through the glass, each realizing the 

               implications of this moment.

               She moves to the window and opens it. The wind rushing through 

               extinguishes the candle, and he slips inside. They face each 

               other in the darkness. Then she strikes a match and relights 

               the candle, and they look at each other.

                                     WALLACE

                         A meeting in a barn. It had to be a 

                         trap. And only you would know I would 

                         be aware of it.

                                     PRINCESS

                         It does me good to see you.

                                     WILLIAM

                         I am much diminished since we met.

               She wants to say something -- but instead she says something 

               else.

                                     PRINCESS

                         There will be a new shipment of 

                         supplies coming north next month. 

                         Food and weapons. They will trav --

                                     WILLIAM

                         No. Stop. I didn't come here for 

                         that.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Then why did you come?

                                     WALLACE

                         Why did you?

                                     PRINCESS

                         Because of the way you're looking at 

                         me now. The same way... as when we 

                         met.

               He turns his face away. Gently, she pulls it back.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I know. You looked at me... and saw 

                         her.

               He twists back toward the window.

                                     PRINCESS

                         You must forgive me what I feel. No 

                         man has ever looked at me as you 

                         did.

               Surprised, he looks at her now.

                                     WALLACE

                         You have... you have a husband.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I have taken vows. More than one. 

                         I've vowed faithfulness to my husband, 

                         and sworn to give him a son. And I 

                         cannot keep both promises.

               Slowly, it starts to dawn on him what she's asking, and an 

               unexpected smile plays at his lips. Her smile lights too.

                                     PRINCESS

                         You understand. Consider, before you 

                         laugh and say no. You will never own 

                         a throne, though you deserve one. 

                         But just as the sun will rise 

                         tomorrow, some man will rule England. 

                         And what if his veins ran not with 

                         the blood of Longshanks, but with 

                         that of a true king?

                                     WALLACE

                         I cannot love you for the sake of 

                         revenge.

                                     PRINCESS

                         No. But can you love me for the sake 

                         of all you loved and lost? Or simply 

                         love me... because I love you?

               Slowly, he reaches to the candle flame, and pinches it out.

               IN THE SHADOWS OF THE COTTAGE BED

               we see the surging, pent-up passion... and

                                                               DISSOLVE TO:

               THE LOVERS

               Their bodies limp, they lie asleep, entwined. The first rays 

               of morning spread yellow light through the room and across 

               their faces.

               Wallace wakes suddenly; sunlight! He grabs for his clothes, 

               as she wakes, covers herself in the blanket and jumps out of 

               bed, rushing to the window to look out.

                                     PRINCESS

                         No one! Hurry!

               He reaches her, throws the window open, and sees a clear 

               path down the wall to safety. He stops and looks at her, and 

               touches her face in gratitude. She has to ask...

                                     PRINCESS

                         When we... did you think of her?

               Pausing to look straight into her eyes, he kisses her -- 

               her, not Marion -- and climbs out. She watches him go.

               EXT. GROVE OF TREES - NIGHT

               Wallace stands alone in the grove where Marion lies.

               MONTAGE

               -- Wallace and fifty men gallop through a village on the way 

               to an English fortress; the villagers drop what they're doing 

               and run to follow them; we see Wallace's face, relentless, 

               as he hacks men down in the attack; with the fortress sacked 

               and smoking in the background, we see Wallace lead his men 

               away, the people cheering him...

               EXT. FOREST ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

               Once again, Wallace stares at the fire, beside his friends.

                                     HAMISH

                         Rest, William.

                                     WALLACE

                         I rest.

                                     HAMISH

                         Your rest is making me exhausted.

               Stephen offers the jug; Wallace declines.

                                     STEPHEN

                         Come, it'll help you sleep.

                                     WALLACE

                         Aye. But it won't let me dream.

               Pulling a tattered tartan around himself, he lies down.

               LONGSHANKS, INT. HIS PALACE - NIGHT

               He sits by a palace hearth, where a huge blaze burns; still 

               he's huddled beneath a blanket, and coughing blood. But he 

               ignores the ice in his lungs; his mind is plotting.

               THE PRINCESS, EXT. THE WALLS OF HER CASTLE - NIGHT

               she walks the parapets alone, lost in her own thoughts.

               ROBERT THE BRUCE, IN A STONE ROOM OF HIS CASTLE

               sits staring at... the stone coffin of his father. The coffin 

               is closed; on its top is a lifesize stone carving of his 

               father as a knight in final repose. Ranks of candles light 

               the scene, and Robert's face, cold as the stone. A SHUFFLE... 

               Robert looks up to see old Craig.

                                     CRAIG

                         May he rest in peace... You have 

                         already sealed the coffin?

                                     ROBERT

                         He was a modest man.

                                     CRAIG

                         It will not be long before Longshanks 

                         too is encased in stone, and his 

                         crowns divided for others to wear.

               Craig sits next to Robert, and keeps his voice low.

                                     CRAIG

                         Our nobles are frightened and 

                         confused... Wallace has the commoners 

                         stirred up again, from the Highland 

                         clans to the lowland villages. In 

                         another six months Christ and the 

                         Apostles could not govern this 

                         country.

               Robert only stares at his father's stone coffin.

                                     CRAIG

                         Longshanks knows his son will scarcely 

                         be able to rule England, much less 

                         half of France. He needs Scotland 

                         settled, and he trusts you, after 

                         Falkirk. If you pay him homage, he 

                         will recognize you as king of 

                         Scotland. Our nobles have agreed to 

                         this as well.

               He shows Robert a parchment bearing the noblest names in 

               Scotland. The Bruce barely glances at it.

                                     ROBERT

                         If I pay homage to another's throne, 

                         then how am I a king?

                                     CRAIG

                         Homage is nothing. It is the crown 

                         that matters!

                                     ROBERT

                         The crown is that of Scotland. And 

                         Scotland is William Wallace.

                                     CRAIG

                         That is another matter. There is a 

                         price to all this, required both by 

                         Longshanks and our nobles. Pay it, 

                         and you will be our king. And we 

                         will have peace.

               Robert turns from his father's coffin, to look at Craig.

               EXT. FOREST ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

               A commotion; the nobles, their heads hooded, are led in on 

               horseback by guerrillas from the village. The nobles stop, 

               feel their hoods pulled off, and see Wallace.

                                     CRAIG

                         Sir William. We come to seek a 

                         meeting.

                                     WALLACE

                         You've all sworn to Longshanks.

                                     CRAIG

                         An oath to a liar is no oath at all. 

                         An oath to a patriot is a vow indeed. 

                         Every man of us is ready to swear 

                         loyalty to you.

                                     WALLACE

                         So let the council swear publicly.

                                     CRAIG

                         We cannot. Some scarcely believe you 

                         are alive. Other think you'll pay 

                         them Mornay's wages. We bid you to 

                         Edinburgh. Meet us at the city gates, 

                         two days from now, at sunset. Pledge 

                         us your pardon and we will unite 

                         behind you. Scotland will be one.

               Wallace glances at Hamish and Stephen, who can barely hide 

               their contempt. Wallace looks at the nobles.

                                     WALLACE

                         I will meet you, but only one way -- 

                         if Robert the Bruce is there, and 

                         puts his hand on my Bible, and swears 

                         his loyalty to Scotland.

                                     CRAIG

                         He has already agreed to come.

               EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

               Wallace stands alone, looking at the moon and stars. Hamish 

               moves up and sits down beside him.

                                     HAMISH

                         You know it's a trap.

                                     WALLACE

                         Probably. But we can't win alone. We 

                         know that. This is the only way.

                                     HAMISH

                         I don't want to be a martyr.

                                     WALLACE

                         Nor I! I want to live! I want a home 

                         and children and peace. I've asked 

                         god for those things. But He's brought 

                         me this sword. And if He wills that 

                         I must lay it down to have what He 

                         wants for my country, then I'll do 

                         that too.

                                     HAMISH

                         That's just a dream, William!

                                     WALLACE

                         We've lived a dream together. A dream 

                         of freedom!

                                     HAMISH

                         Your dreams aren't about freedom! 

                         They're about Marion! You have to be 

                         a hero, because you think she sees 

                         you! Is that it?

                                     WALLACE

                         My dreams of Marion are gone. I killed 

                         them myself. If I knew I could live 

                         with her on the other side of death, 

                         I'd welcome it.

               EXT. ROAD INTO EDINBURGH - SUNSET

               William, Hamish, and Stephen are on their horses, looking 

               down at the road leading into the city. Wallace hands his 

               dagger to Stephen, and unbuckles his broadsword and gives it 

               to Hamish.

                                     HAMISH

                         Keep these. We're going too.

                                     WALLACE

                         No. One of us is enough.

               Wallace hugs them, first Stephen, then Hamish. Tears roll 

               down Hamish's cheeks. With one last look at his friends, 

               Wallace rides away.

               EXT. LARGE ESTATE HOUSE - SUNSET

               The house looks quiet as Wallace rides toward it.

               INT. ESTATE HOUSE - DAY

               Robert the Bruce and Craig stand at the hearth, tense.

                                     CRAIG

                         He won't come.

                                     ROBERT

                         He will. I know he will.

               They hear the approach of a single horse. The Bruce looks 

               out to see Wallace arriving.

                                     ROBERT

                         Here. And unarmed. My God, he has a 

                         brave heart.

               OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

               Wallace dismounts and enters.

               INT. THE HOUSE

               Wallace appears at the doorway into the main room, and stops.

               Bruce faces him. The eyes of BOTH MEN meet, saying everything. 

               Wallace steps into the room. He sees something flicker onto 

               Bruce's face -- shame -- just as henchmen in the rafters 

               drop a weighted net and it envelopes Wallace.

               English soldiers spring from the closets, run down the stairs, 

               and tumble over him, ripping at his clothes, searching as if 

               broadswords might spring from his boots.

               They bind Wallace hand and foot. He stares at Robert the 

               Bruce, who averts his eyes. The soldiers hurry Wallace out 

               the back, where others are bringing up horses. Robert grabs 

               the English Captain of the soldiers.

                                     ROBERT

                         He is not to be harmed. I have your 

                         king's absolute promise that he will 

                         be imprisoned only!

               The Captain looks at Bruce the way the High Priest must have 

               looked at Judas, and leaves.

                                     CRAIG

                         Now we will have peace.

               Robert the Bruce spots something on the floor that must have 

               fallen from Wallace's clothes as they grabbed him; Bruce 

               lifts the white handkerchief, and sees the familiar thistle 

               embroidered on it.

               EXT. ROAD - NORTHERN ENGLAND - DAY

               A procession of heavily armed English soldiers winds its way 

               toward London, Wallace strapped to an unsaddled horse, his 

               head bare to the sun. Country people come out to jeer...

                                     PEOPLE

                         Don't look so fearsome, does he?!

               A thrown rock careens off Wallace's check; rotten fruit slaps 

               his shirt. His lips are so parched they bleed.

               INT. ROYAL PALACE - LONGSHANKS' BEDROOM - DAY

               Edward inspects his father, who lies semiconscious in bed, 

               breath rattling ominously in his chest. Edward approves.

               INT. THE PALACE HALLWAY - DAY

               The Princess hurries up to her husband as he leaves the king's 

               bedroom, and follows him down the hall to his own.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Is it true? Wallace is captured?

                                     EDWARD

                         Simply because he eluded your trap, 

                         do you think he is more than a man? 

                         My father is dying. Perhaps you should 

                         think of our coronation.

                                     PRINCESS

                         When will his trial be?

                                     EDWARD

                         Wallace's? For treason there is no 

                         trial. Tomorrow he will be charged, 

                         then executed.

               With a faint smile, he shuts his bedroom door in her face.

               INT. ROBERT THE BRUCE'S CASTLE - DAY

               The Bruce is incredulous, yelling at Craig.

                                     ROBERT

                         Longshanks promised!

                                     CRAIG

                         You are surprised he would lie? 

                         Balliol was murdered in a church 

                         yesterday. You are Longshanks' new 

                         designate. You will be king.

               INT. TOWER DUNGEON

               Wallace stands in medieval restraints worthy of Hannibal 

               Lecter. Before him are six scarlet-robed royal magistrates.

                                     ROYAL MAGISTRATE

                         William Wallace! You stand in taint 

                         of high treason.

               We PUSH IN on the iron mask that binds his face. We can only 

               see his eyes -- but they are bright.

                                     WALLACE

                         Treason. Against whom?

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Against thy king, thou vile fool! 

                         Hast thou anything to say?

                                     WALLACE

                         Never, in my whole life, did I swear 

                         allegiance to your king --

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         It matters not, he is thy king!

                                     WALLACE

                         -- while many who serve him have 

                         taken and broken his oath many times. 

                         I cannot commit treason, if I have 

                         never been his subject!

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Confess, and you may receive a quick 

                         death. Deny, and you must be purified 

                         by pain. Do you confess? ...DO YOU 

                         CONFESS?!

                                     WALLACE

                         I do not confess.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Then on the morrow, thou shalt receive 

                         they purification... And in the end, 

                         I promise you'll beg for the axe.

               EXT. ESTABLISHING - THE TOWER

               The stone prison, and the wretched stone section known to 

               this day as the Wallace Tower.

               INT. PRISON - NIGHT

               Wallace is alone in his cell, still in the garish restraints.

               We can only see his eyes, as he prays.

                                     WALLACE

                         I am so afraid... Give me strength.

               OUTSIDE THE CELL DOOR

               The jailers jump to their feet as the Princess enters.

                                     JAILER

                         Your Highness!

                                     PRINCESS

                         I will see the prisoner.

                                     JAILER

                         We've orders from the king --

                                     PRINCESS

                         The king will be dead in a month! 

                         And his son is a weakling! Who do 

                         you think will rule this kingdom? 

                         Now OPEN THIS DOOR!

               The jailer obeys. The Princess can barely contain her shock 

               at the sight of Wallace; the jailers snatch him upright.

                                     JAILER

                         On your feet, you filth!

                                     PRINCESS

                         Stop! Leave me!

                              (they hesitate)

                         There is no way out of this hell! 

                         Leave me with him!

               Reluctantly the jailers shuffle out of the cell, but they 

               can still see her back and hear her. Looking at Wallace's 

               eyes through the mask, she can't quite hold back her tears -- 

               dangerous tears, that threaten to say too much. Wallace tries 

               to distract her.

                                     WALLACE

                         M'lady... what kindness of you to 

                         visit a stranger.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Sir, I... come to beg you to confess 

                         all, and swear allegiance to the 

                         king, that he might show you mercy.

                                     WALLACE

                         Will he show mercy to my country? 

                         Will he take back his soldiers, and 

                         let us rule ourselves?

                                     PRINCESS

                         Mercy... is to die quickly. Perhaps 

                         even live in the Tower. In time, who 

                         knows what can happen, if you can 

                         only live.

                                     WALLACE

                         If I swear to him, then everything I 

                         am is dead already.

               She wants to plead, she wants to scream. She can't stop the 

               tears. And the jailers are watching.

                                     WALLACE

                         Your people are lucky to have a 

                         princess so kind that she can grieve 

                         at the death of a stranger.

               She almost goes too far now, pulling closer to him -- but 

               she doesn't care. She whispers, pleading...

                                     PRINCESS

                         You will die! It will be awful!

                                     WALLACE

                         Every man dies. Not every man really 

                         lives.

               She pulls out a hidden vial, and whispers...

                                     PRINCESS

                         Drink this! It will dull your pain.

                                     WALLACE

                         It will numb my wits, and I must 

                         have them all. If I'm senseless, or 

                         if I wail, then Longshanks will have 

                         broken me.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I can't bear the thought of your 

                         torture. Take it!

               On the verge of hysteria, she presses the vial to the air 

               hole at his mouth and pours in the drug. The jailers, seeing 

               suspicious movement, shift inside the cell; she backs up, 

               her eyes wide, full of love and goodbye. From inside the 

               mask, he watches her go. When the door CLANGS shut, he spits 

               the purple drug out through the mouth hole.

               INT. LONGSHANKS' BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

               Longshanks lies helpless, his body racked with consumption.

               Edward sits against the wall, watching him die, glee in his 

               eyes. The Princess enters, and marches to the bedside.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I have come to beg for the life of 

                         William Wallace.

                                     EDWARD

                         You fancy him.

                                     PRINCESS

                         I respect him. At worst he was a 

                         worthy enemy. Show mercy... Oh thou 

                         great king... and win the respect of 

                         your own people.

               Longshanks shakes his head.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Even now, you are incapable of mercy?

               The king can't speak. But hatred still glows in his eyes.

               The princess looks at her husband.

                                     PRINCESS

                         Nor you. To you that word is as 

                         unfamiliar as love.

                                     EDWARD

                         Before he lost his powers of speech, 

                         he told me his one comfort was that 

                         he would live to know Wallace was 

                         dead.

               She leans down and grabs the dying king by the hair. The 

               guards flanking the door start forward but the Princess's 

               eyes flare at them with more fire than even Longshanks once 

               showed -- and the guards back off. She leans down and hisses 

               to Longshanks, so softly that even Edward can't hear...

                                     PRINCESS

                         You see? Death comes to us all. And 

                         it comes to William Wallace. But 

                         before death comes to you, know this: 

                         your blood dies with you. A child 

                         who is not of your line grows in my 

                         belly. Your son will not sit long on 

                         the throne. I swear it.

               She lets go of the old king. He sags like an empty sack back 

               onto his satin pillows. Without even a look at her husband 

               she strides out of the room, with the rattling breath of the 

               dying king rasping the air like a saw.

               EXT. LONDON TOWN SQUARE - EXECUTION DAY

               The crowd is festive; hawkers sell roast chickens, and beer 

               from barrels. Royal horsemen arrive, dragging Wallace strapped 

               to a wooden litter. As they cut him loose and lead him through 

               the crowd, the people begin to jeer and throw things at him: 

               chicken bones, rocks, empty tankards.

               We see a former English soldier, one of those who fled in 

               terror at the battle of Stirling, lift a stone from the street 

               and hurl it; it cracks against Wallace's cheek.

               Wallace's eyes capture the soldier, and hold him, piercing 

               his soul. The soldier looks away in shame, even as the rest 

               of the crowd jeers more.

               Grim magistrates prod Wallace and he climbs the execution 

               platform. On the platform are a noose, a dissection table 

               with knives in plain view, and a chopping block with an 

               enormous axe. Wallace sees it all.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         We will use it all before this is 

                         over. Or fall to your knees now, 

                         declare yourself the king's loyal 

                         subject, and beg his mercy, and you 

                         shall have it.

               He emphasizes "mercy" by pointing to the axe. Wallace is 

               pale, and trebles -- but he shakes his head. The CROWD grows 

               noisier as they put the noose around Wallace's neck...

               WE INTERCUT:

               -- THE PRINCESS, in helpless agony, hearing the DISTANT NOISE 

               from her room in the palace...

               -- Hamish and Stephen, disguised as peasants among the crowd, 

               helpless too, but there, as if to shoulder some of the pain.

               -- Longshanks, rattling, coughing blood, as Edward watches.

               -- Robert the Bruce paces along the walls of his castle in 

               Scotland. His eyes are haunted; he grips the embroidered 

               handkerchief that belonged to Wallace.

               ON THE EXECUTION STAND

               a trio of burly hooded executioners cinch a rope around 

               Wallace's neck and hoist him up a pole.

                                     CROWD

                         That's it! Stretch him!

               In the SCORE, AMAZING GRACE, wailed on bagpipes, carries 

               through all that happens now... Ties hand and foot, Wallace 

               is strangling. The Magistrate watches coldly; even when the 

               executioner gives him a look that says they're about to go 

               too far, he prolongs the moment; then the Magistrate nods 

               and the executioner cuts the rope. Wallace slams to the 

               platform; the Magistrate leans to him.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Pleasant, yes? Rise to your knees, 

                         kiss the royal emblem on my cloak, 

                         and you will feel no more.

               With great effort, Wallace rises to his knees. The Magistrate 

               assumes a formal posture and offers the cloak.

               Wallace struggles all the way to his feet.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Very well then. Rack him.

               The executioners slam Wallace onto his back on the table, 

               spread his arms and legs, and tie each to a crank. Goaded by 

               the crowd, they pull the ropes taut. They crowd grows quiet 

               enough to hear the groaning of Wallace's limbs. Hamish and 

               Stephen feel it in their own bodies.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         Wonderful, isn't it, that a man 

                         remains conscious through such pain. 

                         Enough?

               Wallace shakes his head. The executioners cut off his clothes, 

               take hot irons from a fire box. The crowd grows silent; we 

               see them, not Wallace, as the irons are touched to his body, 

               but we hear the burning of flesh. Then the Magistrate signals; 

               Wallace wants to say something.

                                     WALLACE

                         That... will... clear your sinuses.

               Everyone hears; Hamish smiles, even through his tears.

               Rebuffed, the Magistrate nods to the executioners, who lift 

               the terrible instruments of dissection.

               We are spared seeing the cutting: we are ON WALLACE'S FACE 

               as the disembowelment begins. The Magistrate leans in beside 

               him.

                                     MAGISTRATE

                         It can all end. Right now! Bliss. 

                         Peace. Just say it. Cry out. "Mercy!" 

                         Yes?... Yes?

               The crowd can't hear the magistrate but they know the 

               procedure, and they goad Wallace, chanting...

                                     CROWD

                         Mer-cy! Mer-cy! Mer-cy!

               Wallace's eyes roll to the magistrate, who signals QUIET!

                                     MAGISTRATE

                              (booming)

                         The prisoner wishes to say a word!

               SILENCE. Hamish and Stephen weep, whisper, pray...

                                     HAMISH AND STEPHEN

                         Mercy, William... Say Mercy...

               Wallace's eyes flutter, and clear. He fights through the 

               pain, struggles for one last deep breath, and screams...

                                     WALLACE

                         FREEEEE-DOMMMMMM!

               The shout RINGS through the town. Hamish hears it. The 

               Princess hears it, at her open window, and touches her tummy, 

               just showing the first signs of her pregnancy. Longshanks 

               and his son seem to hear; the cry STILL ECHOES as if the 

               wind could carry it through the ends of Scotland; and Robert 

               the Bruce, on the walls of his castle, looks up sharply, as 

               if he has heard...

               IN THE LONDON SQUARE

               the crowd has never seen courage like this; even English 

               strangers begin to weep. The angry, defeated magistrate gives 

               a signal. They cut the ropes, drag Wallace over and put his 

               head on the block. The executioner lifts his huge axe -- and 

               Wallace looks toward the crowd.

               THE CROWD, WALLACE'S POV

               He sees Hamish, eyes brimming, face glowing...

               SLOW MOTION - THE AXE

               begins to drop.

               WALLACE'S POV

               In the last half-moment of his life, when he has already 

               stepped into the world beyond this one, he glimpses someone 

               standing at Hamish's shoulder. She is beautiful, smiling, 

               serene.

               She is Marion.

                                                              CUT TO BLACK:

               ROBERT THE BRUCE

               His face has changed. He is standing AT THE OPEN GRAVE WHERE 

               MARION LAY, the headstone carved with the thistle still there. 

               He holds the handkerchief. As he tucks it into his own pocket, 

               and we MOVE IN on his eyes, we realize the VOICE OVER belongs 

               to him.

                                     ROBERT (V.O.)

                         After the beheading, William Wallace's 

                         body was torn to pieces. His head 

                         was set on London bridge, where 

                         passerby were invited to jeer at the 

                         man who had caused so much fear in 

                         England.

                              (beat)

                         His arms and legs were sent to the 

                         four corners of Britain as warning.

               EXT. SCOTTISH TOWNS - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

               We see the people, as the remains of William Wallace are 

               displayed in a box. The faces of the young men are fiery.

                                     ROBERT (V.O.)

                         It did not have the effect that 

                         Longshanks planned.

               More young men put on tartans, take up their weapons, and 

               gather into fighting units. Among them is Hamish, carrying a 

               shield emblazoned with a cocked arm holding a broadsword, 

               and the words "For Freedom."

               EXT. SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS - DAY

               Robert the Bruce, flanked by the noblemen and the banners of 

               the Scottish throne, and backed by a ragtag army of Scots, 

               sits on his horse and looks down at the English generals in 

               their martial finery. The English are haughty, victorious, 

               at the head of their colorful, polished army, awaiting the 

               ceremony of submission from Scotland's new king.

                                     ROBERT (V.O.)

                         And I, Robert the Bruce, backed by a 

                         body of Scottish veterans, rode out 

                         to pay homage to the armies of the 

                         English king, and accept his 

                         endorsement of my crown.

               FROM BELOW, ON THE OPEN PLAIN - DAY

               The Scots -- the remains of William Wallace's army -- look 

               so ragged and defeated that it hardly seems worth the wait. 

               One ENGLISH COMMANDER turns and jokes with another...

                                     ENGLISH COMMANDER

                         I hope you washed your ass this mornin -- 

                         it's never been kissed by a king 

                         before.

               UP ON THE HILL, Robert the Bruce sits on his horse, and waits. 

               He looks down at the English generals, at their banners, 

               their army. He looks down the ranks at his own.

               He sees Hamish. Stephen. Old MacClannough is there, his eyes 

               watery, his weapon sharp. The Scottish bride Lord Bottoms 

               took is there, among the ragtag archers, her husband beside 

               her. Robert knows none of them -- yet he knows them all.

               Old Craig, among the other Scottish nobles mounted beside 

               the Bruce, grows impatient.

                                     CRAIG

                         Come, let's get it over with.

               But Robert holds something -- uncurling his fist, he looks 

               at the thistle handkerchief that belonged to Wallace. The 

               nobles start to rein their horses toward the English.

                                     ROBERT

                         Stop.

               Robert the Bruce tucks the handkerchief safely behind his 

               breastplate, and turns to the Highlanders who line the hilltop 

               with him. He takes a long breath, and shouts --

                                     ROBERT THE BRUCE

                         You have bled with Wallace! Now bleed 

                         with me!

               Bruce's broadsword slides from its scabbard. A cry rises 

               from Highlanders, as from a tomb, rising --

                                     SCOTS

                         Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!

               The chant builds to a frenzy; it shakes the earth. The 

               Scottish nobles can scarcely believe it; the English are 

               shocked even more. Robert the Bruce, king of Scotland, spurs 

               his horse into full gallop toward the English, and the 

               Highlanders hurl their bodies down the hill, ready to run 

               through hell itself. In SLOW MOTION we see their faces...

               And OVER THIS, we hear the voice of William Wallace...

                                     WALLACE'S VOICE

                         In the year of our Lord 1314, patriots 

                         of Scotland, starving and outnumbered, 

                         charged the fields of Bannockburn. 

                         They fought like warrior poets. They 

                         fought like Scotsmen. And won their 

                         freedom. Forever.

               On Wallace's army behind Robert the Bruce, charging down the 

               hill to victory and glory, we slow to FREEZE FRAME and hear 

               their chant, huge, echoing...

                                     SCOTS

                         Wal-lace! Wal-lace! Wal-lace!

                                                                  FADE OUT:

                                         THE END

