                           MUTE WITNESS

                              (1994)

                           Screenplay by

                           Anthony Waller

 CREDITS (First part)

 White letters on black screen. We hear the sound of a radio with a

 lot of statics. Apparently, someone is scanning the channels.

 After we've heard different channels, the scanning stops on a

 channel with jazz music.

 With a loud sound, the credits stop, the black screen moves away

 to the right and is replaced by :

 FILM SET - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

 (it is actually day-time, but the scene in the film being shot is

 supposed to take place during the night. So all the artificial

 lights make us believe it is night-time)

 We still hear the sound of the radio.

 We are on a film set, even though we don't know it yet. The way it

 is filmed makes us believe we are in a real bedroom.

 A bedroom, seen through a window. Nice, clean, elegantly furnished

 and very well lit. Large bed. On the other side of the room from

 the window, a young woman is seated in front of desk facing the

 wall. The young woman stands up, with a paper document in her

 hand. She is wearing thick hoses, large slippers and a man's white

 shirt, which hangs down to the middle of her thighs.

 She walks out of the bedroom, to the next room. The window opens,

 and the camera, which acts as the eyes of the intruder, looks

 around the room.

       VOICE ON THE RADIO

       We interrupt this program to bring you a special news

       bulletin.

 The camera moves to the next room :

 FILM SET - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

 A dining-room with a large mantlepiece. In the center of the room,

 a round dining table with four chairs around it. The table is set,

 ready for dinner.

       VOICE ON THE RADIO

       Ernest Strohbecker and two accomplices escaped from a

       maximum-security ward in Bellevue Hospital last night...

 The camera (and consequently the eyes of the intruder) keeps on

 looking around the room and then focus on the radio set sitting on

 a small table.

Close shot on the radio. The volume of the radio goes up.

       VOICE ON THE RADIO

       ... after brutally stabbing two nurses and a custodian to

       death. Strohbecker is extremely dangerous, brutal and

       unpredict...

 The radio is suddenly switched off.

 The camera moves upward to show us the corridor and the open door

 of the bathroom in the corridor.

       THE YOUNG WOMAN (Voice over)

       Harry ?

 FILM SET - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

 Close shot on the mirror, in front of which the young woman is

 standing. She looks a bit surprised by the sudden silence of the

 radio, but very soon goes back to her make-up.

FILM SET - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

The camera (and consequently the eyes of the intruder) moves along

the corridor, toward the door of the bathroom. It stops very

shortly to look at the young woman, still taking care of her make-

up, and moves away to look at the open door on the other side of

the corridor.

FILM SET - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

A kitchen. There is no light and the room is very dark. Close shot

on the row of knives hanging on the wall. A man's hand takes one

of the knives.

FILM SET - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

The young woman opens a small closet, temporarily hiding her face

to the camera. She takes a lipstick and start doing her lips.

Close-up shot on the woman's lips, with the lipstick moving around

them.

Back to the mirror, showing the reflection of the young woman. She

opens the small closet. In the mirror, which covers the door of

the closet, we see a man approaching slowly, with a knife in his

hand.

Close-up shot on the woman's lips.

FILM SET - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

High-angle shot of the corridor, seen from the ceiling.

The woman comes out of the bathroom. She sees something, stops and

walks slightly backward.

       THE YOUNG WOMAN

       Harry ?

She walks to an half-open door and closes the door.

       THE YOUNG WOMAN

       Harry ?

When she closes the door, a corpse, who was hidden by the half-

open door, falls, face down, on the floor. The woman screams.

The corpse on the floor. It is a man with blood on his face. The

woman bends down on the man and shakes him.

       THE YOUNG WOMAN

       Harry !

She turns him around to look at his face. We see the white shadow

of a man coming out of a room.

FILM SET - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

A white telephone in the foreground. The girl runs toward the

telephone. She dials on the phone. We see the mysterious man in

the background, slowly walking into the room, coming from the

corridor. The girl has the telephone handset on her ear, but

apparently, she gets no tone. She frenetically taps on the

telephone hook to make it work. Then she sees the cut wire on the

phone and picks it up. The man is coming closer to her. He has a

black mask on his face, and a white apron covered with blood.

The woman sees the man. She drops the phone and walks back until

she reaches the wall. She moves out of the room to :

FILM SET - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

The woman walks back until she reaches the bed. The man, covered

with blood, has his knife raised above his head. The woman falls

backward on the bed. The man raises his knife above the woman's

body. The woman screams. The man stabs repeatedly the woman with

his knife, and then moves away from the bed.

FILM SET - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

The man enters the room and takes the mask away from his face.

FILM SET - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

Apparently, the woman is not dead and she walks to the desk.

FILM SET - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY (NIGHT in the film)

The man crosses the room.

The bedroom can be seen through the large open door between the

two rooms. The woman tries to steady herself by holding on the

desk, but she falls down on the floor, and the desk with her.

The man sits himself on a table, and searches the breast pocket of

his shirt for a cigarette.

The woman crawls on the floor toward the dining room. She is

holding her stabbed stomach.

The man rolls a cigarette.

The woman stands up, holding on bookshelves set on the wall

between the two rooms.

The man licks the paper of his cigarette.

The woman still holds on the bookshelves.

The man has put the cigarette in his mouth. A hand moves into the

shot, holding a lit match to his cigarette.

The woman falls on the floor, with the bookshelves falling on top

of her.

The two men, the one who stabbed the girl and Arkadi, the one who

lit the other man's cigarette, they both look at the woman and

laugh.

The woman crawls out from underneath the bookshelves. She stands

up, holding on the table.

Back to the two men. A hand comes into the shot, holding a metal

flask to Arkadi. He doesn't take it and the camera moves on the

right to a third man sitting near the two other ones. He drinks

from the flask.

The camera moves to the right of the shot, and the title of the

film appears in white letters on a dark screen. The camera keeps

on moving from one face to another, apparently the faces of the

members of the film crew. And on those faces, we see :

CREDITS (Part Two)

In the background, we hear the noises of the girl who keeps on

falling down and breaking the furniture.

Close up on a dial. A needle is moving on the dial, on which,

besides numbers, is written Groove Depth and Batteries.

The woman falls down. Since she was holding on the tablecloth, the

tablecloth comes away with her, and everything that was on the

table falls down on the floor.

Arkadi and the murderer are laughing.

Close shot on the face of the sound engineer, with the earphones

on his ears.

By now, we've started to understand that what we have seen up till

now is not real, but is part of the shooting of a film, a strange,

a bit gory film, but still a film.

The sound engineer shushes the two laughing man down, and looks

down at his tape recorder.

Close shot of the tape recorder.

The camera moves to the right, and shows a female hand writing on

a clipboard, then moves up and shows a large stopwatch hanging

from a cord around the neck of the writing girl. The camera keeps

on moving up to show the face of the writing girl. She is Karen

Hughes, the assistant director and girlfriend of the director. She

looks at what is going on around the set and squints her eyes,

apparently not liking it.

The camera moves to the right and shows the face of Billy Hughes,

Karen's sister and FX make-up artist.

Back to the actress playing the part of the stabbed woman. She

holds the corner of a chest of drawer, and makes everything on top

of that piece of furniture fall on the floor, including several

bottles of alcohol.

Back to Karen and Billy. Billy represses a laughter behind her

hand.

Close shot on Lyosha, a young assistant camera operator, looking

at Billy and smiling. Then close shot on Billy's face.

The actress holds the drapes of the nearest window. She falls down

on the floor tearing the drapes and breaking the curtain-rod off

the wall.

Karen and Billy are both laughing silently.

The actress gets slowly out from under the torn drapes.

Lyosha looks at the actress, and then at Billy.

Billy looks at the actress, and then at Lyosha.

Close up shot on Lyosha's face, smiling.

Billy walks behind Karen's back to the other side of Karen. Karen

looks at her, and then looks in the direction into which Billy is

looking.

Lyosha keeps on smiling.

Karen whispers in Billy's ear.

       KAREN (whispering)

       He has the hots for you.

Billy answers in sign language. We understand that Billy cannot

speak, but she isn't deaf.

       BILLY (in sign language)

       For me ? No.

The actress, half-covered with the drape, drags the curtain-rod

behind her.

Billy is smiling and Karen is looking at the scene with her mouth

half open.

Close shot on a smiling bearded film crew member. The camera then

moves to the right, to an open ring binder, with a hand following

whatever is written on the document. The camera keeps on panning

on the right, showing part of instruments and people's hands,

while we hear some whining noises coming from the actress.

END OF CREDITS

The camera stops on a close shot on Andy Clarke's face. Andy is

the film director.

The actress looks like a ghost with the drape covering her. She

slowly falls down on the floor, among the mess she has created by

breaking and dropping every prop in sight.

Andy looks thunderstruck by what he sees on the set.

Close up shot on the camera. A button just switched off, showing

that there is no more film inside the camera.

Andy looks at the camera and sighs.

       ANDY

       Cut. Brilliant.

He puts his hands on his eyes.

The actress, still lying on the floor under the drape, raises the

drape to look at Andy.

       ANDY (yelling)

       Natasha !

He stands up.

Both Andy and Natasha, the interpreter, walks toward the still

lying actress and squats around her.

       ANDY

       Okay, I think we have a little communication gap here.

Natasha translates in Russian what Andy just said.

       ANDY

       When I said more...

Natasha translates.

       ANDY

       ...I didn't mean trash the fucking set.

Natasha translates.

       ANDY

       This is not Chekhov. You're not the star. You're just

       another victim.

Natasha translates.

The actress tries to understand what Andy tells her through

Natasha.

       ANDY

       You get stabbed. You die.

Natasha translates

       ANDY

       I want to see the pain.

Natasha translates.

       ANDY

       I want to see the blood spurting.

Natasha translates. Andy turns around to Billy and Karen standing

among the film crew members.

       ANDY (voice over)

       Billy, where was the blood ? I want to see her bleed to

       death.

Billy answers in sign language.

       ANDY (to Billy)

       Okay ?

       (to the actress)

       Okay ?

The actress, still lying on the floor under the drape, nods her

head.

       ANDY (voice over)

       Let's do it again, folks !

A man yells some orders in Russian. Billy walks to the actor

playing the murderer, sitting on a prop. She checks his blood

device. She takes the knife and plugs a tube coming from the man's

shirt on the knife's handle. She explains, by signs, how the knife

works, and he nods. Billy fixes something inside his shirt and he

reacts when Billy touches his stomach.

       THE ACTOR

       Oh !

He smiles. Billy squeezes a small bag full of fake blood. She has

just taken that bag from the inside of the man's shirt. The actor

keeps on smiling and Billy doesn't seem to like the man's smile.

She puts the bag back inside the actor's shirt. Then Billy signs

her sister for her to come. Karen joins Billy, who explains to the

actor what he has to do, and Karen translates Billy's sign

language.

       KAREN

       You make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with your

       elbow. Okay ?

       THE ACTOR

       Sure.

       KAREN

       We're gonna be here till Christmas, right ?

       (turning around and calling)

       Natasha !

Natasha joins the group.

       NATASHA

       Yes.

       KAREN

       Tell him you make the blood flow by squeezing the bag with

       your elbow.

She mimes the squeezing movement while speaking. Natasha

translates in Russian. Karen nods her head. The actor says a few

words in Russian, nodding his head.

       KAREN

       Okay.

Billy looks at Natasha.

       NATASHA (voice over)

       Tell her that he will get it right next time.

       KAREN

       Mmmm... She heard you. You all keep forgetting she can hear

       you perfectly well.

Billy smiles.

       NATASHA (voice over)

       Oh, I'm sorry.

       BILLY (in sign language)

       It's okay.

The actor laughs.

Lyosha, who actually is the assistant operator, is behind the

camera, near the camera operator. Andy sits down on his chair.

       ANDY

       Okay, from the top.

His Russian assistant, standing near the camera, with an open ring

binder in his hands, says a few words in Russian. We hear an angry

voice in the background.

       THE VOICE

       Stop. Stop. Stop!

On the dining room part of the set, where the young Russian

actress broke everything in sight, two men are trying to fix the

broken furniture. Another one, a tall man with a beard, talks very

angrily in Russian.

Andy, still seated on his chair, looks at his Russian assistant.

       ANDY

       What's the holdup ?

The angry bearded man speaks angrily in Russian.

Andy looks and listens at him and then turns toward his Russian

assistant, trying to speak, but is cut off twice by the angry

voice of the man.

The bearded Russian man walks away. Then he comes back and shows

his wristwatch, saying a few more angry words in Russian.

Andy looks up at his Russian assistant.

         ANDY

         What is he saying ?

         THE RUSSIAN ASSISTANT

         He says he's awfully sorry, but he needs at least a day to

         redress the set.

         ANDY (yelling)

         A day ?

         THE RUSSIAN ASSISTANT

         Yeah.

Andy stands up and slaps his thighs, looking very nervous.

         ANDY

         Okay, well, let's just do the close-up of the corpse now,

         and that'll wrap it for today.

The Russian assistant says a few words in Russian. Andy makes a

sign to the camera operator for him to come closer to him. The

operator joins Andy.

         ANDY

         All right. Okay. So, what I want to do is zoom in, do a

         slow zoom into the puddle of blood...

On another part of the set, behind the dining room, Billy kneels

down in front of a big ancient-looking wooden trunk.

On the lid of the trunk is written, in white large capital

letters : KEEP OUT ! BILLY'S BOX. Billy opens the trunk. Inside,

on the inside part of the lid, various props, and in the trunk

itself, a big square plastic bottle and, in a plastic box, plenty

of smaller bottles.

Behind   Billy, who is still kneeling in front of the trunk, we see

Lyosha   walking around. He looks at Billy, who feels she is being

looked   at. She turns around and looks at Lyosha. Natasha walks

toward   Billy.

         NATASHA

         Billy.

Natasha kneels down to be at Billy's level.

         NATASHA

         Madame Olga wants some sugar in her blood again.

Billy laughs.

       BILLY (in sign language)

       Thank you.

Billy stands up and starts pulling the big heavy square plastic

bottle out of the trunk. Lyosha comes to help Billy pull the

bottle out of the trunk. They both slowly put the bottle down on

the floor. Billy looks up at Lyosha, who is smiling to her. Then

he walks away. Billy, kneeling on the floor, opens the bottle.

Karen walks in from behind the trunk. She leans on the open lid of

the trunk.

       KAREN

       So, he's kind of cute.

Billy is pouring a bag of sugar in the bottle.

       KAREN

       Three months in Moscow, cold winter nights...

Billy smiles.

       KAREN

       Just a thought.

Billy makes several language signs.

       KAREN

       Billy, that's what Mom would say.

Billy looks at her sister.

Another part of the set, near the entrance of the set. The

building janitor, wearing a more or less official cap, just walked

in. Karen sees the janitor and waves at him. Billy looks in the

janitor's direction.

       KAREN

       Hi.

Billy waves at the janitor, who waves back at the girls. Then he

yells something in Russian. Billy and Karen look at each other.

They seem to understand what he says. Billy shows two finger to

him. The janitor says something in Russian and walks away.

The dining-room set. The young Russian actress is sitting on the

floor among the debris she has created and she is putting lipstick

on her lips, looking at her face in a small pocket mirror. Billy

walks in with a small plastic case in her hands. She sits on the

floor next to the actress and puts the box down beside her. She

takes the lipstick and the mirror away from the actress' hands,

and puts them down on the floor. Then she gives her a little piece

of white cotton to wipe the lipstick out of her lips. The actress

takes it and starts wiping her lips. Then Billy takes some make-up

to put it on the actress' face. A male hand puts a light meter

close to the actress' face.

A strong light starts playing on Billy's face, and we hear a

Russian voice who seems to come from a loudspeaker.

The upper part of the film set. Three big spotlights on a rack. An

electrician is playing with one of them.

Billy puts her hand above her eyes to try to locate who is sending

that strong light on her face.

The electrician says a few words in Russian.

The actress looks up to see who is talking.

Closer shot on the electrician sitting on the spotlight rack. He

is Arkadi, the man who was sitting next to the actor playing the

murderer, and who offered him a light for his cigarette. He speaks

in Russian with a queer smile on his face.

Natasha squats down near Billy and the actress, to speak to Billy.

       NATASHA

       He says use more white like a real dead body.

Billy covers her eyes and looks up at the spotlight rack.

Arkadi smiles and winks to Billy.

Billy closes her plastic case.

The actress eats a piece of cake. She lies down on the floor.

       ANDY (voice over)

       Okay, Boris, get everyone ready.

Billy, using a pair of tweezers, puts something, which looks like

a cherry, out of a small bottle and into the actress' mouth.

       A VOICE OVER WITH A RUSSIAN ACCENT

       Out of frame, Billy.

Billy stands up and walks away.

The camera, and the group of people around it. Andy is sitting on

his director's chair, and Karen is kneeling on the other side of

the camera, writing on a clipboard. A clapperboard girl walks in

front of the camera, says a few words in Russian, claps her

clapperboard and walks away. We hear a loud noise, and most of the

spotlights are suddenly switched off. Andy looks up at the

spotlight racks.

       ANDY

       What... what is going on now ?

Billy, standing in the half-dark set with her plastic case in

front of her, looks up around her as more spotlights are switched

off with loud noises.

Alex, who must be the assistant producer, walks toward Andy,

tapping his wristwatch.

       ALEX

       Andy. Sorry, it's six o'clock.

       ANDY

       One shot, one more shot !

       ALEX

       We have no time.

Billy opens her arms in a gesture of despair.

All the people around Andy start leaving the set.

       ANDY

       One shot ! I can't believe this.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR EVENING

Night is coming. The sky is grey. In the background, a group of

people is coming out of a building.

Andy and Billy are crossing the parking lot. Cars are driving

around them : the film crew members are leaving the studio. Andy

waves his hand at one of them.

Andy and Billy come to a white car parked near a red car. Karen is

walking on the other side of the white car. She opens the driver's

door. Billy is standing near the red car, and looking for

something in her purse. She can't find it and looks disappointed.

She taps on the roof of her car.

Karen was ready to get inside her car, but, when she hears Billy's

tapping, she looks up. Billy explains something in sign language.

Andy doesn't understand and turns towards Karen

       KAREN

       She needs to go get Strohbecker's face.

Andy claps his hands.

       ANDY

       Ohh ! Right ! His dummy falls off the balcony on Monday.

       KAREN

       We'll wait for you here.

Billy starts walking away. Andy turns toward Karen.

       ANDY

       Karen, she's got her own car.

Billy explains something in sign language.

       KAREN

       Okay. Okay. Don't forget tonight.

She opens the door of her car. Andy turns around to face Billy.

       ANDY

       Yeah, yeah, yeah! Fiesta ! I'm making my famous chili con

       Clarke.

Near Andy's car, Alex, the assistant producer we just saw on the

set, is opening the door of his car.

       ANDY

       Alex !... what do you say ? You coming ?

Alex has already opened the door of his car.

       ALEX

       Sorry. I have tickets for the Bolshoi Ballet tonight.

Andy sneers.

       ANDY

       Well, try and stay awake.

Andy opens the door, gets inside the car and closes the door.

CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR EVENING

Close up shot on a green hideous mask held with both hands by

Billy.

Around Biily, all the props used for the film she is working on,

or other films. Billy puts the green mask down. She looks around

for something. She throws away various masks she doesn't need.

Billy is kneeling near a large box used as a table. On the box

something is written in large capital Russian letters. Around

Billy, a lot of props are scattered around. Apparently, Billy

can't find what she is looking for, and sits back on her heels in

despair. She hears a loud noise. She sits up when she hears the

noise. She tries to figure out what that noise means. She stands

up and runs toward a window.

The sky is darker. The night is coming soon. Billy looks through

the window.

On the parking lot, seen trough the bars of the window, the

janitor is crossing the yard with his dog.

Billy opens the window and turns around, looking for something to

hit the metal bars of the window. She takes a spear from a suit of

armor. Then she bangs on the bars of the window with the long

handle of the spear.

On the parking lot, seen through the bars of the window, the

janitor keeps on walking around with his dog, apparently not

hearing the noise made by Billy. Then he closes the main door of

the studio parking lot.

Billy drops the spear on the floor and runs away from the window.

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

A large corridor. A door opens and Billy rushes out. She opens a

door at the end of the corridor and runs out.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

The gallery around the top of the set. A door opens and Billy runs

along the gallery.

At ground level, we see Billy coming down the stairs leading to

the gallery. Billy runs across the film set, which seems not to

have been used recently.

Billy reaches a heavy metal door and tries to open it... without

any success. She kicks it.

CINEMA STUDIO - ANOTHER ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The parking lot seen trough the heavy metal bars of a door. It is

darker than before and completely empty. Close-up shot on an big

padlock and a thick chain set across the bars of the door.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear very loud rock music.

Close shot on the gas stove. Ground meat is cooking in a frying

pan. Chopped onions are being poured into another frying pan from

a wooden cutting board.

Andy is spraying some spices on the meat. He is wearing an apron

tied around his waist. He tastes his cuisine from a spoon. He is

bobbing up an down in rhythm with the music. Andy makes the round

spice rack spin around very fast and picks up a jar from the rack.

Then he pours spices from two different jars with both hands, in

rhythm with the music, miming a drummer beating his drums with his

sticks. Then he pours tomato sauce from a can into a saucepan. He

throws the empty can away.

       ANDY

       Yeah !

He takes another spice jar. But the lid of the jar comes off, and

all the spices fall down into the meat. He puts the empty jar

down.

       ANDY

       Damn !

He takes the lid off the meat. We hear the phone ringing. Andy

lowers the volume of the music from the radio set hanging on the

wall. The phone is still ringing.

       ANDY

       Honey ! Honey, can you get that ?

Andy takes the meat frying pan out of the stove to pour the meat

into the onions frying pan.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The kitchen seen from the dark living room. There is no door

between kitchen and living room, just a wide open arch. The phone

is still ringing. Andy turns around.

       ANDY

       Honey !

       KAREN (voice over)

       I'm in the shower !

Andy puts the frying pan back on the stove and runs in the living-

room. He picks up the phone from a table.

       ANDY

       Hello ?... Hello ?

CINEMA STUDIO - A ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close dark shot of Billy with the telephone handset to her ear.

She taps on the microphone of the handset. The telephone set is on

a small shelf fixed on the wall.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Even if the volume of the radio has been lowered, it is still loud

enough for Andy not to be able to hear Billy's tapping. A hissing

sound, coming from the kitchen, makes him turn around.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

On the stove, a big stew pot is hissing, and water is leaking

between the lid and the pot.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy takes the telephone set and runs toward the kitchen. But the

cord is a bit too short and is stretched tight just when he

reaches the kitchen. He drops the telephone set on the floor.

       ANDY

       Hello ?

He tries to reach the stove control panel while still holding the

telephone handset to his ear.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy's hand is trying to reach the control panel of the stove.

CINEMA STUDIO - A ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is still tapping on the microphone of the telephone.

       ANDY (voice over from the telephone)

       Hello ?

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy puts the telephone back on its hook on the set on the floor

of the kitchen.

CINEMA STUDIO - A ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear the disconnection tone of the telephone. Billy puts is

back on its hook on the small shelf on the wall. She leans on the

shelf, feeling dispirited.

MOSCOW - AERIAL SHOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Aerial shot of Moscow, with all the cars driving on the main

highways. The camera pans to the right and reaches an high brick

building near the river.

Fade in to :

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy is setting some food on a plate on the small table. The music

is off. We hear the waiting tone of the telephone.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Didn't it even cross your mind ?

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is seated at the table, holding the telephone handset to her

ear. We still hear the waiting tone. The telephone set is beside

her on the table, where three candles are burning in three

candlesticks.

       KAREN

       It could've been Billy.

       ANDY (voice over from the kitchen)

       I was thinking about dinner.

Full shot of the room, with Karen seated at the table, and Andy in

the kitchen in the background, still fixing dinner.

       ANDY

       I'm still thinking about dinner.

       KAREN

       She's not there either. Shit.

She shuts the telephone by pressing on the hook, still keeping the

handset to her ear. We ear the long tone of the telephone.

       KAREN

       Okay. Ohh !

She dials another number.

CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT

There are no light, and the room is completely dark. We hardly see

a huge bear and a bat. The camera pans on the right, tilting

slightly down. The camera comes to Billy, seated behind a desk and

dialing on a telephone set. She puts the handset to her ear, but

only gets a busy tone. She puts the phone down on its hook.

Documents are scattered on the desk. A draught makes one of the

documents fly away. Billy looks surprised by what just happened.

Some more papers fly away. She looks on her right at a door with

frosted small window panes, which closes shut by itself.

On the top of the door, a small bell is ringing.

Billy looks at the door and stands up

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

A long dark corridor. A door opens on the right, ringing the small

bell. It's the door of Billy's workshop. Billy walks out of the

room. In the dark, we only see the dark outline of her figure. She

stops, not sure about where she is going to go next. Eventually,

she starts walking slowly. She stops again when she hears voices

speaking in Russian. Then she starts walking again.

A metal door with a notice hanging from the handle. Zoom on the

notice, on which something is written in Russian. Actually, it is

an elevator door.

CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy peeks from behind the elevator door to look at what is going

on down below.

High angle shot of the elevator shaft. We hear voices speaking in

Russian and we see some light at the bottom of the shaft, where

the cabin is.

Billy is still peeking into the elevator shaft. A draught is

waving her hair. She moves away.

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy closes the door of the elevator. She walks toward the

staircase, and starts walking downstairs. Through the open door of

the staircase, we see her stopping, because she just heard a faint

sound of a telephone ringing.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is still seated behind the table and listening to a

telephone which keeps on ringing without any answer. Andy walks

slowly toward the table, coming from the kitchen. Karen looks very

nervous. Suddenly we hear a clicking noise in the telephone.

       KAREN

       Hello, Billy !

Karen looks up at Andy.

       KAREN

       Thank God. She's there. Are you all right ?

       ANDY

       Ask her about the mask.

Karen shushes Andy with her hand.

       KAREN

       You want to tap something through ?

CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is holding the telephone next to her ear. She taps on the

microphone with her finger.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen has the telephone handset squeezed between her head and her

shoulder.

       KAREN

       Wait. Wait. Wait.

Andy turns around because he just heard a hissing noise in the

kitchen. He runs toward the stove.

       ANDY

       Oh, man !

       KAREN (voice over)

       A...O...

       ANDY

       Oh, man !

In the kitchen, Andy tries to save his cooking.

       KAREN

       ...L ?

Andy puts his frying pan down into a large white plastic can full

of water, where it starts hissing.

       ANDY

       Man ! Oh, man !

       KAREN

       Was it L ? The second letter, was it L ?

Karen shushes Andy with her hand.

       ANDY

       Shit !

Andy is getting his frying pan out of the plastic can.

       KAREN

       A-L-L ?

While Karen is trying to understand her sister's message, Andy is

banging the frying pan on the side of the can, to get rid of

everything that was inside it.

       KAREN

       O...kay !

She smiles.

In the kitchen, Andy looks at his empty frying pan.

       ANDY

       We're eating out tonight.

       KAREN

       Okay. So are you coming over now ?

CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy keeps on tapping on the microphone.

       KAREN (voice over on the telephone)

       Do you have the mask ?

Billy taps again.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

       KAREN

       Well, don't worry. Just get over here.

       ANDY

       You hungry ?

       KAREN

       Bye.

Andy throws the frying pan in the can of water, where it hisses

again. Karen looks at Andy, puts the telephone down and makes a

face.

CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is running downstairs.

CINEMA STUDIO - A FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

The entrance of a film set. We hear some giggles. The door opens,

Billy enters and closes the door behind her.

In the background, spotlights are switched on above a scenery :

apparently, someone is shooting a film. Billy walks noiselessly

across the empty part of the set. As Billy comes closer to the lit

part of the set, we hear strange noises that sound like a woman

having an orgasm.

With Billy in the background, we see a camera with an operator

behind it.

On a bed, two actors are having sex. The female, a blonde woman,

is naked, the male has his pants down to his ankles and is wearing

a T-shirt and a white mask.

Billy looks slightly embarrassed by what she sees.

Close shot on the face of the camera operator, looking into the

viewfinder of his camera. He is Lyosha, the young man who was

courting Billy.

The blonde naked woman is moaning. She is a slightly plump woman

with hair too blonde to be true. She could be in her forties.

Billy, still looking slightly embarrassed, is also smiling.

The woman is faking a very strong orgasm.

       LYOSHA (voice over)

       Stop ! Stop ! Stop !

The woman instantly stops faking her orgasm and gets up from the

bed. Lyosha talks in Russian to the woman, who is still lying on

the bed. Her lover, lying on the woman, is answering Lyosha in

Russian.

Lyosha looks back into his viewfinder.

We hear the woman, moaning again. Billy walks around the set.

Close shot on the face of the lover. He is wearing the mask

Billy has been looking for. In the background behind the man, we

see Billy, looking from behind an open window in the scenery.

Lyosha looks up from his viewfinder, then back again into it.

The woman's lover slaps her gently on the face, but keeps on

having sex with her. The man slaps her again but much harder this

time. She screams.

Billy looks surprised by what she sees.

The man holds the woman down on the bed with both hands. He slaps

her very hard several times and then hits her with his fist.

Billy closes her eyes, disgusted by what she sees. We hear the

woman being hit and screaming.

The woman seems very surprised by what is happening to her. The

man keeps on hitting her. She tries to cover her face from the

blows she is getting repeatedly.

Lyosha smiles, looking very happy with what is happening on the

set.

The woman tries to get the man away from her. She grabs his mask

and throws it away. Underneath the mask, the man has another black

very close-fitting fabric mask hiding his face, which could be a

black stocking. He grabs both her hands with one of his hands, and

holds them above her head. Then he takes a black strong ribbon

from under the bed and ties her hands with it. The woman is now

very frightened and tries to get free. The man slaps her very

hard.

Close shot on a pillow being lifted by the hand of the man. Under

the pillow, there is a long very sharp knife.

Billy can't believe what she sees.

The man takes the knife and slowly lifts the knife above his head.

Billy looks more and more frightened. She has tears in her eyes.

She is crying silently with her fist in her mouth.

The man start stabbing the woman. Her blood is splashing on the

wall and the man's T-shirt. The woman is covered with her own

blood.

Billy starts walking away from the window and across the set.

The woman doesn't seem to move anymore, but the man is still

stabbing her.

Billy walks backward across the set and she bumps into a hatstand

which falls down. Everything that was in the open purse hanging on

the hatstand - hairbrush, keys, lighter, make-up things, etc. -

falls on the floor. A plastic diskette-case skids on the floor and

slips under a big wooden wardrobe.

Lyosha, alerted by the noise, stands up from his camera.

Billy is kneeling on the floor near the fallen hatstand.

Lyosha goes back to his camera.

Billy, kneeling on the floor, puts everything back into the purse.

Then she stands up, puts the hatstand back on its legs and walks

away from it. She hides behind the large wooden wardrobe. Lyosha

walks slowly toward the place where Billy is hiding. Billy walks

away and Lyosha stops near the hatstand.

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The long dark corridor. In the foreground on the left, the

staircase, the only part of the set where there is light

(apparently coming from the windows and the street lights). Billy

is running upstairs. She enters the corridor, where she starts

running, just when Lyosha appears in the staircase, running after

Billy. When he reaches the landing, Lyosha switches on the lights

in the corridor. Just before Lyosha enters the corridor, in the

background, we see Billy hiding in a nook, a small partition, in

the corridor.

Lyosha looks for her. Billy seems suddenly interested by something

up on the wall across from her. It is a sign for an emergency

exit. Billy looks in the direction the sign is pointing at. It is

the emergency exit.

Lyosha is coming toward Billy's hiding. He stops to listen for a

meaningful noise. He opens a door to look into a room. Billy peeks

from behind her hiding nook. She runs toward the emergency exit,

which is located toward the end of the long corridor.

The open door, and just behind it, Lyosha looking into the room.

He switches the light off, just as Billy reaches the emergency

exit. He walks out of the room, and closes slowly the door behind

him. He looks at the far end of the corridor.

       LYOSHA

       Hey !

He walks a couple of steps and stops. He turns around and says a

few words in Russian.

Billy is hiding behind a big red vending machine at the far end of

the corridor. Lyosha looks around him and Billy looks at the

emergency exit.

Close shot on the handle of the emergency door. Then the camera

pans on the left and stops on the red emergency box, with the door

key inside. Near the key, is posted a long notice in Russian.

Lyosha walks slowly toward Billy. He tries to open a door, but it

is locked. We hear him talking in Russian.

Billy is still hidden behind the red vending machine.

       LYOSHA

       Hello ?

Lyosha keeps on walking slowly toward Billy.

       LYOSHA

       Is anyone there ?

Lyosha is looking at the far end of the corridor. He crosses

toward a door.

       LYOSHA

       I can explain.

He opens the door and walks inside the room.

Billy peeks cautiously from behind the machine, and sees the open

door. She runs toward the emergency exit. She breaks the glass

with her hand and grabs the key.

       LYOSHA (voice over)

       Ho ?

Billy runs back toward the vending machine, behind which she hides

again.

Lyosha walks out of the room, leaving the door open, and looks at

the far end of the corridor.

Billy is still hidden behind the vending machine. Lyosha is coming

toward her. Billy moves slowly along the wall, keeping her back as

close as possible of the wall. She opens a door and enters a dark

room. She closes the door behind her.

Lyosha reaches the vending machine, and starts running toward the

emergency exit. He stops near the emergency box with its broken

glass. He looks inside the emergency box. His finger comes out of

the box, with the tip covered with Billy's blood. He tries to open

the emergency door, which is locked.

CINEMA STUDIO - STORE ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

A dark store room, with large windows. The door opens and Lyosha

walks in. He runs to the window. He looks outside, but seeing

nothing significant, he turns around and walks a couple of steps

inside the room. He stops and looks around. He starts walking

again across the room. Suddenly something catches his eye.

Close shot on the bottom of a long drape. There is a thin space

between the bottom of the drape and the floor. And on this thin

space, the tip of a shoe is showing. Lyosha walks slowly toward

the drape. He pulls the drape open with a very quick movement.

Several racks of shoes were actually hidden by the drape.

CINEMA STUDIO - BILLY'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT

A door opens in the back of the room and Billy walks in the room.

There is some light coming from the door. Billy walks to the main

door of the room and opens it. She raises her arm and grabs the

bell at the top of the door to silence it. She walks out of the

room.

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The long corridor. The lights are still on. Billy walks out of her

workshop and closes the door. She starts running along the

corridor toward the emergency exit. She suddenly stops, when she

hears a door opening. She runs back toward the staircase and hides

near the entrance of the staircase. In the background, we see

Lyosha coming out of a room. The camera pans toward the staircase

and Billy. A door opens on the floor below, and the large shadow

of a man is projected on the wall of the staircase. Billy runs on

the other side of the landing, while the man starts climbing the

stairs. He is Arkadi, the electrician working on Andy's film, and

the one who was playing with a spotlight on Billy's face. He is

bare-chested, which makes us believe he was the poor actress'

murderer. He reaches the landing and stops.

Billy is still hiding in a dark corner. She sees Arkadi coming on

the landing.

       ARKADI

       Lyosha !

Lyosha is coming to meet Arkadi. They speak in Russian.

Billy looks at the two men, then she moves silently away from

them. She reaches the door of the elevator, which is supposed to

be out of order, and opens it. She puts the key of the emergency

exit door in her mouth, and start climbing down the elevator shaft

emergency ladder.

CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy climbs down the emergency ladder, trying not to miss the

steps.

Her face is now on the level of the bottom of the door of the

elevator. There is a small gap between the bottom of the door and

the floor, which enables Billy to peek at what is going on in the

corridor.

A shoe appears in the gap between the door and the floor.

Close shot on the small window at the top of the elevator door.

Arkadi's face appears in the window. He looks around inside the

elevator shaft.

Billy is not in front of the gap anymore, but hiding in the dark.

She puts the key in front of the gap.

Arkadi tries to open the door of the elevator. But it is locked.

The blood on his hand proves that Arkadi was actually the poor

actress' murderer. Through the small window, he looks around in

the shaft.

Billy tries not to be seen through the gap.

Arkadi still looks around in the shaft. He turns his head to talk

in Russian to Lyosha.

Billy has got the key back between her teeth. We hear the two men

talking in Russian.

Arkadi's face moves away from the window. Some lights are switched

off, making the window slightly darker.

Billy moves away from the wall of the shaft and falls. She catches

the elevator cables.

Close shot on Billy's face. She is holding the cables. She makes a

face because of the pain. She doesn't have the key in her mouth

anymore.

Close shot on a concrete ledge somewhere along the shaft. The

emergency door key drops on it, then moves away from it.

Billy is trying to climb back up to the door.

We see the elevator cabin at the bottom the shaft, and Billy in

the foreground, trying to climb back up. There is some light in

the cabin. We hear some strange noise in the shaft. Billy looks

down at where the noise is coming from.

Close shot on the key, seen through the chicken wire roof of the

cabin, and resting on the floor of the cabin.

Billy, still holding the cables, starts going slowly down. She

misses a step but holds on the cables. She keeps on going down the

shaft. She eventually reaches the roof of the cabin. We hear

muffled voices talking in Russian.

Billy sits down on the roof of the cabin to rest a little. Through

the chicken wire that covers the roof of the cabin, she sees the

key on the floor of the cabin. She tries to open a panel in the

chicken wire. It is stuck but she eventually succeeds in opening

it. She moves the panel on its hinges and rests it against the

wall. We still hear the muffled voices talking in Russian. Billy

starts climbing down in the opening in the chicken wire.

Billy drops down on the floor of the cabin. The front door of the

cabin is wide open showing the well lit store room in front of the

cabin. But the cabin is not completely at the same level as the

room : it is slightly higher. We hear banging noises in the

background.

Billy looks at the room and is suddenly frightened by something.

She stands up and looks up at the roof of the cabin. She climbs

back toward the roof. We see Lyosha in the room, walking toward

the elevator.

Lyosha is coming closer, carrying a large plastic trash bag on his

shoulder. When he reaches the elevator, he takes the bag down from

his shoulder, and drops it in the gap between the bottom of the

cabin and the floor of the room. The plastic bag drops down to the

bottom of the shaft.

Billy, lying on the roof of the cabin, is looking through the

chicken wire.

Arkadi is walking toward the elevator, carrying a bag on his

shoulder, and pulling another one on the floor.

Close shot on the key, which was not actually on the floor of the

cabin, but on the floor of the room, just outside the cabin. The

plastic bag, pushed by Arkadi under the cabin, pushes the key in

the gap.

Lyosha and Arkadi are standing just outside the cabin. Lyosha is

pushing another bag in the gap. The two men then walk away from

the cabin.

Billy climbs down from the roof of he cabin and stands up on the

cabin floor. Seeing Lyosha, she squats down, but Lyosha walks

away.

Billy climbs out of the cabin. Then she enters the gap and starts

climbing down the shaft, using the emergency ladder.

The bottom of the shaft is full of plastic bags and various

debris. Billy reaches the bottom and steps on the bags. She kneels

down and starts searching for her key. Suddenly, we hear a very

loud noise. Billy, startled by the noise, stands up.

Lyosha is looking through the gap at the bottom of the shaft. He

turns around and talks in Russian to Arkadi.

       LYOSHA

       Arkadi !

Billy is hiding among the plastic bags.

Lyosha is still calling Arkadi.

       LYOSHA

       Arkadi !

He talks to him in Russian.

Arkadi comes near Lyosha with a powerful flashlight, and, with it,

he looks into the bottom of the shaft. The light from the

flashlight is playing on the bags.

Close shot of Billy's face, hidden among the bags. The light moves

near Billy's face, then moves to a transparent bag, near Billy,

with a head inside. Billy looks up at the bag. She screams

noiselessly. Suddenly she turns around, because she has seen

something else.

Close shot of the emergency door key, lying among the debris,

brightly lit by Arkadi's flashlight.

Arkadi walks away from the elevator, followed by Lyosha. Before

leaving, they close the outside door of the elevator. After the

door has been closed shut, the elevator shaft becomes completely

dark.

Billy slowly comes out of the bags. She takes the key. Then she

slowly stands up, puts the key in the pocket of her sleeveless

jacket and starts climbing the emergency ladder along the wall of

the shaft. She climbs just a few step to reach the first door, the

basement door.

Close shot of the small window on the door of the elevator, seen

from outside the shaft. Billy's face appears in the window. The

basement is completely dark.

Billy tries to open the door, but it is locked. She bangs on it

with her hand. Then she shakes it violently. She looks up, on the

verge of tears. She sighs. Then she hears some steps.

Arkadi is coming carrying a powerful lamp.

Billy looks very frightened. The light from the lamp plays on her

face.

Billy moves away from the door.

CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Arkadi stops near the locked door of the elevator, puts his lamp

down on the floor, and takes a key out of his pocket.

CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy climbs on the emergency ladder in the shaft

CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Arkadi opens the door of the elevator.

CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy looks very frightened.

CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Arkadi is kneeling down by the lamp. He starts to stand up. He is

carrying a plastic bag which he has taken away from inside the

elevator shaft. He walks away, leaving the door open.

CINEMA STUDIO - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy climbs down the shaft.

CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Arkadi walks away in the basement. Billy slowly comes out of the

elevator door and runs away in the opposite direction from Arkadi.

She hides behind a pillar, because she sees Arkadi's lamp in the

background. Arkadi is coming back, and Billy moves around the

pillar to be hidden from Arkadi's eyes. Arkadi stops near the

elevator. He opens the elevator's door.

Billy runs away. She trips on something and makes a little noise.

She stops.

Arkadi, coming out of the elevator, looks in Billy's direction.

Billy opens a door and walks out.

Arkadi slowly walks away from the elevator door.

The door closes smoothly behind Billy.

CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is walking rapidly upstairs.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

The door of the set opens and Billy walks in. She walks slowly

through the set, looking around her. Suddenly, the big spotlights

are switched on one by one.

In the electricians' control cabin, we see Lyosha switching the

lights on. More spotlights are switched on.

Billy is running around on the set, trying to avoid the lights.

She reaches the scenery and jumps out of one of the scenery

windows.

A searchlight, controlled by Lyosha. The searchlight is following

Billy.

Billy tries to avoid the searchlight. She runs away toward the

exit of the set. She meets Arkadi coming back on the set, but she

keeps on running.

       ARKADI

       Billy !

Billy starts climbing a ladder, but before climbing, she pushes a

heavy piece of furniture to block the bottom of the ladder. The

piece of furniture falling down makes other props fall down.

Arkadi starts moving the props out of his way. He reaches the

bottom the ladder.

       ARKADI

       Wait. I explain.

He starts climbing the ladder, turning his head around to yell :

       ARKADI

       Lyosha !

In the electricians' control cabin, hearing his name, Lyosha looks

outside the cabin.

       ARKADI (voice over)

       Lyosha !

He says a few words in Russian.

A gallery near the ceiling of the set. Billy is running along the

gallery.

Lyosha runs out of the electricians' control cabin and on the

gallery.

Billy runs down a few steps and outside the room. From the other

side of the gallery, Lyosha comes running after her.

CINEMA STUDIO - STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Lyosha runs downstairs.

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The long dark corridor, with the staircase in the foreground.

Lyosha runs in the corridor from the staircase, but before

entering the corridor, he switches the lights on. With the lights

on, we can see Billy running away to the far end of the corridor.

Lyosha runs after her.

Zoom on the emergency door, coming closer to us.

Billy is running toward the door.

Billy puts the key in the keyhole. She opens the emergency door

and shuts it behind her.

Lyosha runs toward the door. He pushes it open.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The other side of the door, opening on a small gallery leading to

the emergency ladders set along the exterior wall of the building.

The door is been violently pushed open by Lyosha. With Lyosha's

violent push, Billy falls backward, above the balcony of the

gallery and down on the yard below.

Billy falls on her back on a huge pile of used film metal boxes.

Lyosha bends over the balcony and looks down at Billy.

Billy is lying among the boxes and moves her head.

A blurred dark picture with lights dancing around. It is what

Billy's eyes are seeing when she tries to focus after her fall.

She sees the blurred picture of Lyosha running down the emergency

ladder along the wall of the building.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Hello!

The corner of the building. A shadow is moving hidden by the

building.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Hello ?

Lyosha is bending over Billy. When he hears Karen's voice, he

looks up.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Is anybody there ?

Karen appears at the corner of the building, looking around.

       LYOSHA

       Come here, quickly !

Karen runs toward them.

       KAREN

       Oh, my God, Billy.

       LYOSHA

       Quickly !

Karen runs toward Billy, still lying on the film boxes in the

foreground. She bends over her.

       KAREN

       What did happen ?

       LYOSHA

       I don't know.

Lyosha looks up at the gallery where Billy fell from.

       LYOSHA

       She slipped and fall bad. Poor Billy.

Karen yells in Andy's direction.

       KAREN

       Andy, she's at the back !

       LYOSHA

       Get the doctor, quickly.

       KAREN

       You go. I'll stay here with her.

Billy is trying to say something to her sister.

       KAREN

       Let go of her.

       LYOSHA

       No, I must hold her. She must not move.

Lyosha's hand is restraining Billy's arm.

       LYOSHA

       Danger she'll never walk again if she move.

Billy is moving nervously, trying to get her arm free to talk to

her sister.

       LYOSHA

       Go !

       KAREN

       Yeah, okay.

Billy tries to move her hand away from Lyosha and bangs on a film

box.

       KAREN (yelling in voice over)

       Andy !

She bends over Billy.

       KAREN

       Billy !... Billy, you mustn't move... You may become

       paralyzed. It's dangerous... Don't worry. I'll be right

       back... I promise.

Karen starts moving away from Billy

       KAREN

       Andy !

Billy moves nervously, raises from the film boxes and looks

desperately at Karen.

Karen just saw Billy's last expression and seems worried.

Billy is trying to articulate some words.

Karen runs back toward Billy. She reaches the pile of film boxes

and bend over Billy. She looks at Lyosha.

Andy is walking toward them.

       ANDY

       What's going on ?

Karen turns toward Andy.

       KAREN

       Andy, go with the janitor...

Lyosha seems worried.

       KAREN (voice over)

       ...and fetch an ambulance !

Andy joined the janitor with his dog.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Billy's had an accident.

       ANDY

       What ?

Lyosha says something in Russian to the janitor.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Don't just stand there !

Karen looks at Andy.

       KAREN

       Do it now !

The dog barks. Andy turns toward the janitor

       ANDY

       Ambulance !

The janitor answers in Russian. The dog keeps on barking. Andy

pushes the janitor toward his office.

       ANDY

       Come on !

They both walk away.

Karen bends over Billy.

       KAREN

       It's all right, sweetie.

Billy is still moving restlessly.

       KAREN

       I'm here now and an ambulance is on its way.

Karen pushes Lyosha's hand away.

       KAREN

       Let go of her. She's trying to say something.

Lyosha stands up. Billy talks to Karen with her hand.

       KAREN

       Police ?

Billy keeps on signing.

       KAREN

       Murder ?

She looks up at Lyosha.

Lyosha shrugs his shoulders and makes a face that means he doesn't

know what Billy is talking about.

       KAREN

       Andy ! Andy !

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

This the set where the poor actress was brutally murdered.

Billy is seated between Karen and Andy. She has a disoriented look

on her face, and a blanket is wrapped around her shoulders. Karen

is tenderly stroking Billy's shoulder. We hear some laughing and

people talking in Russian.

Lyosha and Arkadi are talking to an uniformed Russian policeman,

who seems to be in charge of the inquiry. Consequently, he will

be, from now on, mentioned as First Policeman

The other policeman (who shall be mentioned as Second Policeman)

is kneeling down, looking at something on the floor, and the

janitor is standing in a corner with his dog on a leash.

Lyosha, Arkadi and the first policeman are still talking together.

They slowly walk toward the rest of the group. The second

policeman, who was still kneeling down, stands up.

Billy is listening to Lyosha, apparently trying to lip-read and

understand what he says. Lyosha turns toward her.

       LYOSHA

       Excuse me. It's true. We just fake murder. If we really

       want to murder...

The two uniformed policemen are listening to Lyosha.

       LYOSHA (voice over)

       ...why make film of it ?

Lyosha and Arkadi both laugh.

       LYOSHA

       We're not stupid, really.

The janitor is trying to follow the conversation. We hear a

policeman talking in Russian.

Arkadi answers in Russian.

Arkadi must have said something funny, because the policemen are

laughing.

Lyosha and Arkadi look at Billy.

       ARKADI

       No, no. Sorry.

Billy doesn't look at Arkadi, but Karen does.

       ARKADI (voice over)

       We understand how she feel. She think she see...

Back to Lyosha and Arkadi

       ARKADI

       ...a real murder and panic.

Billy taps on Karen's arm. Karen looks up at Arkadi.

The first policeman looks at the paper he is holding in his hand.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Where did you see the murder from ?

Billy stands up and, pointing her finger, shows where she was

during the murder.

The two policemen both turn around to look at the place Billy is

showing. The second policeman moves away and the first one looks

at his paper.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       And it was this man ?

He points at Arkadi.

Billy, seated again, points at Arkadi.

Lyosha looks at Arkadi.

The first policeman resumes the reading of his paper.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       But you say here : He wore a stocking pulled over his

       head.

Billy looks very angry and keeps on pointing at Arkadi.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       And then they chased me through the building and try to

       kill me as well.

Arkadi yells something in Russian. Lyosha also says something in

Russian, but with a quieter voice.

       ANDY

       Guys ! Guys ! English, please.

Arkadi stops yelling. Lyosha speaks to him. Arkadi pushes him

away.

       ARKADI

       We make test for you.

The first policeman looks at Arkadi, and then at Billy.

       ARKADI

       For your film. We try make blood much big.

Andy looks at Arkadi and then at Billy.

Close shot on Billy, enabling us to read her words on her lips.

       BILLY (in sign language)

       He's lying !

       LYOSHA (voice over)

       Sorry, Billy.

Billy looks at Lyosha

       LYOSHA

       We not tell you. Keep secret not to hurt your feelings.

       ANDY

       I would've let you done tests.

Karen slaps Andy.

       KAREN (whispering)

       Andy.

Karen tries to tell silently to Andy to shut up.

       ANDY

       What I mean is... What I mean is... Let's see their film.

       I'll know if it's real.

Billy nods her head, approving what Andy just said.

       FIRST POLICEMAN (voice over)

       You're right.

The first policeman looks at the two men, and speaks in Russian to

them.

Arkadi and Lyosha both look slightly embarrassed. Lyosha starts

walking away.

Karen looks, with a worried eye, to the departing Lyosha.

       KAREN

       Wait. Stop !

Karen runs after Lyosha.

       KAREN

       He could expose the film.

The first policeman takes Lyosha's arm and talks to him in

Russian.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Let her do it. Please.

       KAREN

       Okay.

Karen starts working on the hermetic bag used as a portable dark

room. Karen puts her arms inside the bag.

       KAREN

       This lets you unload the film without needing a darkroom.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       I see.

Close shot on Arkadi's face. He looks very menacing.

Andy starts taking his jacket off.

       ANDY (whispering)

       God, it's hot in here.

In the background, Arkadi is bending down on something we don't

see. He looks up at Karen.

       KAREN (voice over)

       If he had exposed the film to the light, he could have

       destroyed all the evidence.

Billy looks at Arkadi, still busy doing something that we don't

see.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Actually, I haven't done this since film school.

Arkadi stands up from whatever he was doing.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Right. It's safe in the can now.

Arkadi walks around the group.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Here. Take it to the lab immediately...

Close shot on Arkadi walking away.

       KAREN (voice over)

       ...for developing.

Billy, who understands something wrong is going on with Arkadi,

stamps her feet.

Karen gives the film to the first policeman.

       KAREN

       It's okay... It's okay.

Arkadi is walking slowly with something that looks like a knife in

his hand. We hear Billy clapping her hands. Andy turns around to

look at Billy.

Billy points to Arkadi and tries to explain something in sign

language.

Karen looks at Billy.

       KAREN

       Murder weapon ? Where ?

Arkadi grabs Andy and pushes him against the wall.

Karen screams.

Arkadi stabs Andy in the stomach with his knife. Andy screams. He

has blood on his cheek. Arkadi keeps on stabbing Andy.

The first policeman takes his gun out of his belt.

Both policemen grab Arkadi from behind. They pull him away from

Andy. They have both drown their guns.

Karen rushes toward Andy, whose shirt is covered with blood.

Karadi, still restrained by the two policemen, is yelling in

Russian.

       LYOSHA (voice over)

       Stop. Stop. Stop!

Arkadi drops his knife, and it remains attached to his wrist by a

plastic tube. Actually, it was a fake prop knife.

Andy stutters, trying to explain something to Karen.

       ANDY

       I'm...

       KAREN

       What ?

       ANDY

       I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine.

       KAREN

       You...

       ANDY

       Oh, my God!

Karadi shows the knife to the policemen. He makes the retractable

blade work, to prove it is harmless.

Billy walks to her trunk and notices that the padlock on the lid

has been broken. She opens the trunk. She takes the fake blood can

out of the trunk : it is almost empty.

The policemen taste the fake blood.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Tastes sweet.

       ANDY

       It's for the actors. They put the stuff in their mouths.

Billy stamps her foot. They all turn toward her. She explains

something in sign language.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       What she say ?

       KAREN

       That it's her knife. They broke into her box and used all

       the blood.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       So now she say it was a trick.

Billy keeps on talking in sign language. Karen translates.

       KAREN

       It happened so fast she couldn't see the knife clearly.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       But everything else she saw tonight was clear ? Huh ?

Billy keeps on talking in sign language. Karen translates.

       KAREN

       The body in the elevator shaft. She saw that.

Billy points to the elevator door.

CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

They are all walking in the basements toward the elevator. Several

of them are carrying torches. Billy is still wrapped in the

blanket.

They reach the elevator and Arkadi opens the door. The first

policeman points his torch in the bottom of the elevator shaft.

The dog barks. The janitor tries to calm it down. There are many

plastic trash bags scattered in the bottom of the shaft. The first

policeman talks in Russian to the second one. Apparently, he asks

him to go down to the bottom of the shaft and look at the bags.

The second policeman doesn't look very happy to do it.

But he does go down in the shaft, and starts looking into the

bags. He even pours the content of the first one out of the bag.

But there are only trashes in the bag.

Arkadi and Lyosha look at each other.

The second policeman finds a bloody sheet in a bag.

Lyosha talks to him in Russian. And the first policeman apparently

tells him to do what Lyosha just asked

Reluctantly, he second policeman tastes the blood on the sheet. He

smiles and says a word in Russian.

The first policeman repeats that word to Lyosha

       KAREN

       What ?

       ANDY

       What ? What ?

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Sweet. It is fake blood.

       ANDY

       It's fake blood.

       KAREN

       They could have soaked the sheets in fake blood afterwards.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       But... where is the body ? Huh ?

The second policeman keeps looking through the trash bags.

The first policeman shows the paper, he is still holding, to

Billy.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Here you say, "A head cut off."

The second policeman has just emptied another bag. He makes a sign

meaning Nothing significant and talks in Russian.

Arkadi answers something that makes Lyosha and the two policemen

laugh.

Billy says something in sign language.

       KAREN

       Oh ! Wait. Wait. Ah ! She says... Well, there were more

       bags in there before.

The first policeman seems a bit fed up with Billy.

       ARKADI

       No, she's right. I will show you.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

They are all coming out of the basement on a ramp that reaches the

yard and the parking lot around the building. Arkadi is leading

them.

       ARKADI

       From lift shaft we take the rubbish here. Fast. Easy.

The janitor says something in Russian. They have reached the large

plastic trash containers where all the trashes from the studio are

dropped off, waiting for the garbage collectors to take them away.

The second policeman raises the lid of a container, while the

first policeman looks inside. Arkadi takes a bag out of another

container and drops it on the ground. The second policeman looks

inside the bag with his flashlight. There seems to be a head

inside the bag. The policeman pours the content of the bag on the

ground. Actually the head was just a mask !

       ANDY

       Hey, we need that.

He picks up the mask from the rubbish. He wipes it with his hand.

The first policeman gives his card to both Billy and Karen.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Sorry, I can do nothing for you now. But I will call you

       after I see the film. Okay ? Sorry.

He walks away. The second policeman shakes hands with Arkadi and

Lyosha and goes away with his chief.

Billy rests her head on Karen's shoulder.

Lyosha looks at her, shrugs and smiles.

ANDY'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot on Billy's face, seated in the back of the car. She

looks very sad and disappointed.

Andy is driving, with Karen seated next to him.

       ANDY

       Well, I've never been more embarrassed in my entire life.

       KAREN

       I don't get it. I mean, Billy's a pro. She'd know the

       difference between a real murder and a gag.

       ANDY

       Please, has she even seen a real murder ?

       KAREN

       That's my point. If what she saw tonight was real, then she

       has seen the difference, right ?

       ANDY

       Oh, come on, honey. We all bought the guy cutting me up

       tonight. Even I believed it.

       KAREN

       Because you're a wuss.

She laughs.

       ANDY

       I'm gonna let that slide.

Karen looks at Billy.

       ANDY

       No offense, Billy, but I'd like to re-shoot the stuff today

       using that guy's knife.

       KAREN

       It was her knife. God !

A very short flash-back sequence of the murder of the actress.

       ANDY

       Whatever. It looked good.

Another very short flash-back. We understand those short flash-

backs come from Billy's mind reliving what she saw a couple of

hours before.

Karen, looking at Billy, seems to understand what's going on

inside her sister's head, because she says to Andy :

       KAREN

       Shut up.

More short flash-backs of the murder, and a close-up shot on

Billy's face. She seems very disturbed.

CINEMA STUDIO - BASEMENT - INTERIOR NIGHT

The janitor is patrolling the basement with his dog. He is

carrying an electric torch.

He checks a heavy metal door, which is closed.

While he is checking the door, the dog runs away.

The janitor looks around him.

       JANITOR

       Buka !

He is apparently calling his dog, but he gets no answer. He starts

looking around.

He reaches the door of the incinerator. We hear the noise of the

incinerator, and we see its light on the janitor's face. The

janitor seems surprises that the incinerator is working so late in

the night. We hear the dog whining.

       JANITOR

       Buka ?

The janitor enters the incinerator room. He walks slowly around

until he reaches the incinerator. The incinerator door is slightly

open. He looks inside.

Close shot of the inside of the incinerator. Among the flames, a

human skull is burning.

The janitor walks backward with a terrified look on his face. He

trips on something and falls down.

Close shot on the fallen flashlight rolling around. In the light,

we see a pair of boots, belonging to a still unknown man, standing

on the floor.

Still lying on the floor, the janitor discovers his dog lying next

to him, and starts patting it. The dog's fur is covered with

blood.

       JANITOR

       Buka.

Arkadi walks toward the janitor.

       JANITOR

       Buka. Buka.

Arkadi raises something we don't clearly see (a knife ?) above his

head and hit the janitor, still lying on the floor.

A RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot of a knife hitting a beefsteak. The directors's idea

was, of course, to give us the impression that it was Arkadi's

knife hitting the poor janitor !

Larger shot of the steak being cut into the plate. We hear some

soft music.

Karen and Andy are seated, side by side, at a table in a

restaurant, with Billy sitting on the other side of the table.

Andy, with his shirt still covered with fake blood, is eating with

an evident good appetite. Billy doesn't seem to be very hungry.

Andy gives his plate to Billy.

       ANDY

       Please, Billy, take some of mine. You'll feel better.

Billy explain silently that she is not hungry. Andy takes his

plate back.

       ANDY

       Okay.

Andy pours a lot of ketchup on his steak.

Billy says something in sign language. Karen looks at her, while

Andy drinks his wine. Billy keeps on talking.

       ANDY

       Could you pass me the salt, please ?

Karen gives the salt to Andy.

       KAREN

       You could at least make the effort.

Andy stops eating, looks at Billy drinking water and then at

Karen.

       ANDY

       Listen... I'm sorry. All I can think about now is the

       movie, but as soon as we get back, I promise, I'll learn.

He starts eating his steak again.

       KAREN

       How often have I heard that ?

       ANDY

       Come on. I can understand some of what she's saying.

       KAREN

       What ?

Andy puts his fork and knife down.

       ANDY

       Okay, how about this ?

Andy makes a sign.

       ANDY

       Means makeup, right ?

Billy smiles and nods her head No.

       KAREN

       Wrong. It means somebody's look, the expression on their

       face.

       ANDY

       That was close.

       KAREN

       What Billy said she'll never forget the look on the girl's

       face tonight from the moment she knew she was gonna die.

       She said the pain and the terror was real. You can't act

       that.

Billy looks at Andy and Karen with a worried face. Andy seems

suddenly a bit worried too.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The chimney of the studio seen from the parking lot in a low-angle

shot. A lot of black smoke is coming out of it, certainly from the

incinerator.

Lyosha is smoking on the ramp leading to the basement, and he,

like the chimney, exhales a lot of smoke, but white one !

The door of the basement opens and Arkadi walks out. There seems

to be a lot of smoke in the basement too. He coughs. Lyosha throws

him a pack of cigarettes, which he catches. He spits, takes a

cigarette out of the pack and lights it.

Two cars are coming toward them. The fist one is a large black

limousine.

Lyosha picks up a small plastic bag.

The cars stop near the ramp. Arkadi and Lyosha walk toward them. A

man gets out of the front passenger door of the second car. He is

Wartschuk, the Big Boss' first assistant. He closes the door and

walks toward Lyosha and Arkadi. Lyosha gives him the plastic bag.

The man says a few words in Russian and nods toward the limousine.

He walks away, but Lyosha doesn't move.

A man is sitting in the back of the limousine, his face hidden in

the dark. He is called The Reaper and he is the famous Big

Boss of the whole criminal organization, and consequently of

Arkadi and Lyosha.

       THE REAPER

       Come closer, Mr. Hausmann. I won't bite.

Lyosha starts walking slowly toward the car.

       THE REAPER (voice over)

       Did it go smoothly ?

       LYOSHA

       About the money...

       THE REAPER

       Did it go smoothly ?

       LYOSHA

       Yes, of course. No problem.

The Reaper bends slightly, so his face appears in the light.

       THE REAPER

       Did it go smoothly, Mr. Hausmann ?

       LYOSHA

       We did our job. The condition was...

       THE REAPER

       The condition was that everything would go smoothly.

       LYOSHA

       Yes. Yes, and we have your diskette.

       THE REAPER

       And who informed the police ?

       LYOSHA

       American girl say something, but nobody believe her.

       THE REAPER

       As long as there are witnesses, there's no money.

       LYOSHA

       You mean ?...

       THE REAPER

       I think we understand each other, Mr. Hausmann.

The Reaper winds his car window up. Then he sits back in his seat.

Lyosha and Arkadi look at the two cars driving away.

Lyosha gives a folded paper to Arkadi, who unfolds it.

Close up shot on the paper. It shows Billy's address and telephone

number.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Low-angle shot on the buildings around the street. Then the camera

tilts down to street level. Andy's car drives toward us and stops.

Billy opens the back door and walks out of the car. Karen opens

the driver's door and walks out. Both sisters close their doors.

Billy starts walking toward her building and Karen follows her.

       KAREN

       No, honestly, you can come back to our place, and we'll set

       up the couch if you want.

Andy has remained in the car.

Billy answers her sister in sign language.

       KAREN

       You're not on one of your I'll show her how independent I

       am kicks, are you ?

Andy has got out of the car and is watching the two sister,

leaning on the roof of the car.

       ANDY

       Honey, you coming or what ?

Billy waves to Andy and enters her building. Karen looks at her

sister and then turns toward Andy.

       KAREN

       Andy, don't you care about her ?

Andy looks offended by Karen's words.

       ANDY

       I don't care ? I don't care ? Fine, fine. I'm calling the

       American Embassy tonight, okay ?

Billy has stopped near her building door and is looking at Karen

and Andy's verbal fight.

       KAREN

       It's the weekend. They're closed.

       ANDY

       Not for us. My dad gave me the duty officer's direct number

       before we left, just in case. So say goodbye.

He waves to Billy, who waves back to him. She blows a kiss to her

sister, who blows one back, and enters her building.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

A long corridor. In the foreground, the two uniformed policemen,

who took care of Billy's case, are sitting on a wooden bench. The

second policeman is asleep. The first policeman stands up when he

sees a group of three people, a woman in white coat (like a nurse)

and two men in suit and tie, coming toward them. The first

policeman wakes up the second policeman, who stands up.

One of the men is Mr. Larsen, a high-rank police officer, the

other one is Mr Lovett, the US ambassador's secretary.

The woman in white shows the two policemen to Larsen, then walks

away. Larsen takes his hat off.

       LARSEN

       Mr. Lovett, these are the two officers who answered the

       complaint.

He shakes hands with the two policemen.

       LOVETT

       Good evening, gentlemen.

Lovett shakes hands with the two policemen.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Good evening.

       LARSEN

       Please speak English to the ambassador's secretary. My

       chief asked me to meet Mr. Lovett here. If this witness is

       correct about what she saw tonight, she may help my own

       investigation.

       LOVETT

       Your English is quite good, Mr. Larsen.

       LARSEN

       Thank you. My mother was a translator.

       LOVETT

       In the university ?

       LARSEN

       No. KGB.

After Larsen's answer, there is a slight embarrassed silence

between the two men. Fortunately for them, a door opens and a man

in white coat walks out of a room, carrying a film box under his

arm. He talks to Larsen in Russian, and shows him the room where

they have to go. Larsen shows the room to Lovett.

       LARSEN

       Please.

They all follow the technician.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The door of the projection room opens and Lovett enters, followed

by Larsen.

       LARSEN

       We've been tracking gangsters in Moscow running an

       international pornography and prostitution racket.

The two policemen enters behind them. Larsen shows a seat to

Lovett. The projection room looks like a small cinema theatre,

with rows of red seats.

       LARSEN

       Sit down, please. We have information they have made snuff

       films here and sold them all over the world.

Lovett sits down. Larsen takes his coat off and sits down next to

Lovett. The two policemen sit on the row behind the two men.

       LOVETT

       Snuff film... Is that what I think it is ?

       LARSEN

       Victims believe they are making a sex film, but they are

       murdered in front of the camera.

Larsen turn toward the two policemen.

       LARSEN

       What is the name of the witness ? What is it ?

He snaps his fingers.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Billy Hughes, sir.

       LARSEN

       Billy Hughes. Yes. She claims to have seen one being made.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION CABIN - INTERIOR NIGHT

The technician is setting the film reel on the projector. We can

hear the voices from the room coming through the loudspeaker of

the cabin.

       LARSEN (voice over from the loudspeaker)

       The victims are illegal immigrants exploited as prostitutes

       by a gang headed by one man.

The technician is feeding the film into the projector.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

       LARSEN

       He is brutal, ruthless. They call him The Reaper.

Larsen is making nervous movements with his hands.

       LARSEN

       I'm surprised his men gave up the film so easily. If it is

       what I think it is, our witness, Billy Hughes, is in great

       danger.

The sequence ends with a close shot on Larsen's worried face.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot on the gas flames of the water heater.

Billy is getting ready to take a bath. She is just wearing a bath

towel wrapped around her body. With her hand, she tests the

temperature of the bath water. She pours some bubble-bath from a

big bottle into the water. We hear the telephone ringing. Billy

turns her head toward the living-room

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The apartment is a bit ancient-looking. It doesn't look like

Billy. One can tell it is only a rented apartment for a short

period. Various clothes are scattered around the room.

Billy walks from the bathroom along the corridor to the living-

room. The telephone keeps on ringing.

The telephone and the special answering machine are set on a small

table. Billy picks up the telephone handset and puts it on the

machine. Then she sits down on a chair and puts a pair of earphone

on her ears. Finally, she presses a button on the machine.

Close up shot on the screen of the machine. It looks a bit like a

computer screen. The machine offers the choice between different

sentences :

     Hello

     Hello this is Billy Hughes speaking

     I am using a digital voice computer

     Please have patience and I will answer

     My address is apartment 923 - 126 Kievsky Prospekt

     My telephone number is 9205910

     etc.

Billy chooses the second choice, using a ball-mat. Then she brings

the arrow on an icon to start the machine.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking.

Momentarily, the scene is seen through a binocular, which makes us

realize that Billy is been spied by someone.

Billy, apparently getting no answer but a deep breathing noise,

chooses the first choice.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Hello.

A shot on the large bay window makes us guess where the spy is

hiding : somewhere across the street.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking.

Billy keeps on trying to get an answer.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Hello.

But she gets only a disconnection tone. She takes the earphone out

of her ears, and puts them on the table. She looks at the window.

Shot on the window, with a zoom on another window across the

street. Behind that window, we see the figure of a man looking at

Billy with binoculars.

Billy seen through the neighbor's binoculars. She walks to the

window and pull the drapes to hide the window.

The spy sees the drapes being pulled through his binoculars.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The same men are still in the projection room. The first policeman

has taken his cap off. And Larsen is now seated in a seat behind

Lovett.

       FIRST POLICEMAN

       Have you seen a... how do you say... snuff film before ?

       LARSEN

       I saw a woman tied to a tree   kept alive while her arms and

       legs were cut off. It's hard   to talk about it, or even

       think about it. And it makes   you sick to watch it. You

       never forget the look in the   victim's eyes. The sheer panic

       and horror when they realize   they're about to die.

Lovett looks very disturbed by what Larsen just told him. The

technician knocks on the window between his cabin and the room.

Larsen and Lovett turn around, and Larsen makes a sign to tell the

technician to start the film. Then he takes a cigarette from the

pack he left on his former seat. The room becomes dark and the

projection starts. The four men watch the film which has no sound.

On the screen of the projection room, we see the sequence when the

young actress, pretending she is dying very slowly, breaks the

whole set.

Lovett and Larsen turn their head toward the cabin.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION CABIN - INTERIOR NIGHT

The technician is also watching the film through the window

between the two rooms. When he sees Larsen looking at him, he

shrugs to tell him that he is not responsible for what is shown on

the screen.

POLICE HEADQUARTERS - PROJECTION ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen and Lovett turn back to watch the screen.

On the screen, the sequence when the young actress is pulling the

tablecloth away from the table, and also everything that was on

the table.

The two policemen are smiling because they find what they see on

the screen quite funny.

Lovett and Larsen do not smile, because they are disappointed.

Now, on the screen, the actress is pulling the drapes down from

the windows.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen, wearing her night-gown, is seated on the edge of the bed.

We hear Andy talking into the telephone.

       ANDY (voice over)

       Yes, sir... No, sir.

Andy is walking up and down in the next room, carrying the

telephone set in his hand and with the handset on his ear.

       ANDY

       Right... Right... Right, sir. Right, sir. Thank you, Mr.

       Ambassador. So, I really appreciate the call. I'll give Dad

       your best. Right.

He puts the phone down back on its hook.

Karen has a worried look on her face.

       KAREN

       Well ?

       ANDY

       I told you. There's nothing to worry about. He says the

       film's the biggest piece of shit he's ever seen.

Andy is smiling, but Karen still has a worried look on her face.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

High-angle shot of the room, seen from the ceiling. Billy is lying

in her bathtub, surrounded by foam and bubbles. Her eyes are

closed. She slowly puts her head underwater, and leaves just her

face above water.

One of the faucet is leaking and water is dropping from it.

One of the glass panes is broken and fixed with adhesive tape and

newspaper.

He eyes closed, Billy has her daydreams flashbacks again. She sees

the actress' blood spurting on the wall of the scenery. She sees

her being stabbed. She sees herself running away from Lyosha in

the long dark corridor.

Suddenly, she feels drops of blood on her face. And, opening her

eyes, she sees the bloody actress behind the broken glass pane.

She quickly sits up in her bath. She looks at the window, which is

empty. She hears the phone ringing. She stands up in her bath and

takes her bath towel to dry herself.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy opens the bathroom door and walks out and along the

corridor, while drying her hair. She has put a bathrobe on.

She puts the telephone handset on the answering machine. She puts

her earphones on and select an answer.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Hello, this is Billy Hughes speaking.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is sitting on the bed, with the telephone handset to her

ear. Andy is lying next to her, asleep.

       KAREN

       Hi, Billy. It's Karen. I hope you weren't sleeping. I just

       wanted to check and see if you're okay.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy smiles, hearing her sister's voice. She start typing on the

keyboard of the answering machine. The she sends the text to the

digital voice translating system.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       I am fine. No need to worry. Did you call earlier ?

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is still seated on her bed.

       KAREN

       No, I got straight through. You sure you're okay ?

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy starts typing again.

Close up shot on the machine screen. We can read what she is

typing.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Sure. Had bath. All fine. Now I go to bed. You too.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

       KAREN

       I just wanted to tell you : they saw the film, and it's not

       the real thing.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is listening to her sister.

       KAREN (voice over from the telephone)

       That's good. Right ?

The doorbell rings. Billy turns her head toward the door.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

       KAREN

       Did I hear something there ?

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy starts typing her answer.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Doorbell. Wait. I'll see who.

She puts her earphones down, and stands up. We can still hear

faintly Karen's voice coming from the earphones.

       KAREN (voice over from the telephone)

       What ? Ah ! It's almost one o'clock. I wouldn't get that,

       Billy...

       (louder)

       Billy ?

Billy is looking through the peephole on the door.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is looking worried.

       KAREN

       Billy ? You be careful, now. Check who it is first.

Karen's louder voice has awaken Andy, who sits up.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is still looking through the peephole.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LANDING OUTSIDE THE FRONT DOOR - INTERIOR

NIGHT

The landing, just outside Billy's apartment front door, is dark

and empty.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy, still looking in the peephole, moves her head from right to

left, trying to see further on the landing. She slowly moves away

from the door to a small table by the door.

Close up shot on the table, and a business card lying on it. It is

the first policeman's card. It says : Police Inspector Vladimir

Pekar - Precinct 22 and underneath an address and a telephone

number.

Billy is still standing near the door. She puts the safety chain

on. And then she slowly opens the door. Arkadi appears behind the

door. Billy tries to shut the door, but he puts his foot between

the door and the wall.

       ARKADI

       Please. I want to talk.

Desperately, Billy tries to push the door shut.

Close up on the earphones on the machine keyboard.

       KAREN (voice over from the telephone)

       Billy ?

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen seems very excited.

       KAREN

       Billy, are you still there ?

       ANDY

       Would you leave her alone ?

He lies back in the bed.

       KAREN

       I heard a noise, Andy. Something's happened. I swear.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is trying to push the door shut. Arkadi has a big wire-

cutter in his hand. He brings the cutter near the chain. Billy

takes an umbrella from the stand near the door, and, with it,

tries to prevent Arkadi from cutting the chain. Arkadi cuts the

tip of the umbrella off. With her slippered foot, Billy kicks

Arkadi's foot still jamming the door, but it doesn't move it off.

Then she takes the heavy metal umbrella stand and hits Arkadi's

foot with it. Arkadi removes his foot from the door. Billy can -

at last - slam the door shut. She leans on it, panting.

KAREN AND ANDY'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is now very frightened. She yells in the phone.

       KAREN

       Billy !

She puts the phone down and stands up from the bed.

       KAREN

       Okay, that's it. I'm going there.

Andy sits up on the bed.

       ANDY

       What ?

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is still leaning on the door, panting. We hear the noise of

an electric machine. Billy's eyes widen with horror. She rushes to

the telephone, and starts typing frenetically.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Karen, help. Call police. Emergency.

Close up shot on the door lock. We can guess that Arkadi is trying

to open the door with a power tool.

Billy puts her earphone on. She hears the disconnection tone. She

presses the disconnection switch on her own telephone.

Close up shot on the door lock. One of the screws holding the lock

pops off and falls on the floor.

Billy is listening to a Russian-speaking female voice in her

earphones. She types on her keyboard.

       THE VOICE ON THE PHONE

       Hello ?... Hello ?

She sends her message.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Police, emergency.

A few word in Russian and then, more distinctly :

       THE VOICE ON THE PHONE

       Police ?

Billy types Yes.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Yes.

Getting a Russian answer, she types Da

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Da.

Billy chooses a pre-recorded message, and sends it.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Hello, my name is Billy Hughes. My address is apartment

       923...

Close up on the lock : another screw just pops off. The telephone

operator keeps on speaking in Russian, apparently not listening to

Billy's message. We hear the power tool working again on the lock.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       ... 126 Kievsky prospekt...

Billy takes her earphones off and rushes out of the room.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Telephone 9-2-0-9-5-9-1-0...

BILLY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy enters her dark kitchen. She takes a big knife from the

table, and rushes out of the kitchen.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy rushes in the room, with the knife in her hand. The

answering machine keeps on speaking.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Billy Hughes speaking.

Close up shot on the lower screws of the lock. They're vibrating

under Arkadi's tool.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       This is a digital voice computer.

Close up on the answering machine screen. Billy select another

message. She puts her earphones on.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Please have patience and I will answer.

Apparently, the telephone company found an English-speaking

operator.

       TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Hello ? You English ?

Billy works frenetically on her answering machine.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       My name is Billy Hughes.

       TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Yes ? What do you want, please ?

Close up on the screen. Billy is typing a message.

       TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Hello ?

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Help. Intruder.

But apparently, the operator doesn't speak such a good English

       TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       I no understand. Sorry.

The operator speaks in Russian, certainly to another operator.

Billy types another message.

       DIGITAL VOICE

       Bad man want to kill me.

       TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Bad man ? I get man who speak English, yes ?

Close up on the lock : another screw pops off.

Billy takes her earphones off and rushes to the light switch. She

puts all the lights of the room at their maximum lighting

capacity.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM WINDOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

We see Billy's living room window from the outside. Billy is

pulling the drapes wide open. Then she starts waving her arms to

attract the attention of the peeping-Tom and his binoculars.

Reverse angle shot on the window where the peeping-Tom was

standing when he was watching Billy. There is light coming through

the window and someone is moving in the room behind the curtains,

but the peeping-Tom doesn't seem interested by Billy at the

moment.

Back to Billy's window. She unties her bathrobe and shows her

breasts.

The peeping-Tom is still moving in the room behind the curtains,

but he doesn't come to the window.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is standing in front of the window, with her bathrobe wide

open, revealing her naked body to whomever wants to watch it !

Close up on the lock. Another screw is vibrating and pops off. We

see the drill bit coming through the hole it just made.

Billy hears a male voice coming from her earphones.

       MALE TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Hello ? Hello ?

Billy picks up the earphones and put them on her ears.

       TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       I speak English.

The door burst open and Arkadi walks into the room. Billy picks up

her big kitchen knife and points it to Arkadi.

       MALE TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Are you okay ?

Arkadi presses the light switch to dim the lights in the room.

Close up shot on the earphones.

       MALE TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       If you just give your address, we send somebody

       immediately.

Arkadi is walking slowly inside the room. Billy is walking

backward away from him, but still pointing her knife at him.

       MALE TELEPHONE OPERATOR

       Hello ?

Arkadi tears the telephone cord off the telephone handset. He

tries to get near Billy, but she is still pointing her knife at

him. He pulls the drapes back on the window.

Walking backward, Billy has reached the wall, in which she bumps.

She takes a white statuette on a chest of drawers and throws it at

Arkadi.

Arkadi bends down and avoid the statuette, which crashes on the

wall behind him. He takes his own knife out of his pocket, a

switchblade knife.

Billy pushes the chest of drawers toward Arkadi. It crashes on the

floor, but Arkadi avoids it. Billy is still pointing her knife at

Arkadi, when we hears some bumping noise.

APARTMENT BELOW BILLY'S - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

In the bedroom just underneath Billy's apartment, a Russian couple

is trying to get some sleep, which, with all the noise in Billy's

apartment, is not very easy.

The woman is still in the bed, but the man is standing up on the

floor, holding a broom with both hands, and hitting the ceiling

with the handle of the broom. Both members of the couple swear in

Russian.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy, who has understood the situation very well, is hitting the

floor with a stick.

APARTMENT BELOW BILLY'S - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The man hears the noise made by Billy, and answer by hitting the

ceiling with his broom.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is waving her knife around her, to prevent Arakadi from

coming closer to her. She throws the knife at him. Arkadi bends

his head and the knife hits the piano.

Close up of the piano keyboard, with the knife stuck between two

keys.

Billy rushes out of the room, closing the door behind her.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy rushes into the kitchen. She takes various knives hanging

from the wall and throws them at Arkadi, as he tries to enter the

kitchen. One knife gets stuck into a painting on the other side of

the corridor. Arkadi almost catches Billy, but she jumps through a

sort of window set between the kitchen and the living-room.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy stands up after her jump through the window, and she slams

the door of the corridor in Arkadi's face. This door being a sort

of French window, with plenty of small glass panes on it, Arkadi

crashes through the door, scattering pieces of glass all over the

floor. He falls on the floor. Billy slips on a piece of glass and

also falls on the floor. Arkadi tries to catch her by the ankles.

She kicks him in the face. He grabs her ankles back. Billy grabs a

big white vase from the floor, she sits up and crashes the vase on

Arkadi's head. Arkadi lets her go, and she rushes to the front

door, but, as she reaches the door, Lyosha comes in. She rushes to

the corridor. Arkadi, still a bit groggy, looks at Lyosha with

blinking eyes.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Same high-angle shot, as before, of the bathroom seen from the

ceiling.

Billy enters the bathroom, and locks the door behind her.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Arkadi stands up slowly and walks into the corridor.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Arkadi tries to crash the door open. Billy looks around for a

possible escape.

She opens the door of the small cabinet above the sink, and takes

everything out of it

BILLY'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot on the bathroom door. Arkadi has put his knife

inside the lock of the bathroom door to open it.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot on the door. We see the handle of the lock spinning

slowly.

Billy, still looking in the cabinet, sees the handle spinning. She

rushes to the door and spins the handle back into the lock

position. A knife blade comes through the door a few inches from

Billy's face. Billy goes back to the cabinet and starts searching

it again. Eventually she seems to have found what she was looking

for : a small disposable razor.

The door is shaking under Arkadi's blows. Eventually his hand

breaks through the door and tries to find the handle of the door.

Billy picks up the toilet brush (the handle of which is a Donald

Duck), and hits Arkadi's hand with it. But the door starts falling

down under Arkadi's blows. Billy looks through the hole Arkadi has

made in the door with his hand.

Through the hole, we can see Arkadi going to the end of the

corridor, and running back full speed to smash the door.

At the last moment, when Arkadi is going to hit the door, Billy

opens it. Arkadi can't stop himself, he crosses the bathroom and

falls into the full bathtub. Billy hits him on the head with the

Donald Duck toilet brush. Then Billy takes the hair-drier, switch

it on, and throws it in the bathtub. Arkadi is instantly covered

with blue sparks. Then he falls back into the bathtub where he

remains motionless. Billy grabs a bunch of clothes and rushes out

of the bathroom.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Lyosha is looking through Billy's documents scattered on the desk.

When Billy comes rushing through the room, he grabs her. She tries

to fight him but he locks both of her arms behind her back. He

brings her to the desk, and slams her face on the desk. He puts a

knife very close to her face.

       LYOSHA

       Where's the diskette ?

He puts a piece of paper and a pen in front of her face. He frees

her right hand for her to be able to write.

       LYOSHA

       Where is the diskette ?

Billy takes the pen and starts writing.

Close up shot on the paper. Billy writes : What diskette ?

       LYOSHA

       I know you have !

Lyosha raises Billy's bathrobe above her waist, revealing Billy

naked bottom underneath.

Billy looks very frightened, afraid of what Lyosha can do to a

defenseless naked girl. She takes the pen very firmly in her hand

and brings it violently to Lyosha's leg.

Close up shot of the pen hitting Lyosha's leg.

Lyosha screams. He raises his knife to bring it down on Billy.

Billy is waiting for the worse to happen. She hears the noise of

something - or someone - falling violently on the floor. And

suddenly, she realizes she is free. She raises from the table and

sees Larsen holding Arkadi's big wire-cutter in his hands. He just

hit Lyosha with it. Larsen throws the wire-cutter on the floor and

bends on Billy.

       LARSEN

       My name is Alexander Larsen. I'm a policeman. Take your

       clothes. We must get out of here.

Larsen goes to the window and peeks through the drapes.

       LARSEN

       You must hurry.

Billy rushes to her clothes she had dropped on the floor when

Lyosha grabbed her. She sits down on the floor and starts putting

her socks on.

       LARSEN

       I explain everything in the car.

He is still peeking through the drapes.

       LARSEN

       In the car. No time now.

He gathers the rest of Billy's clothes, takes her hand to makes

her stand up, and drags her outside the apartment.

BILLY'S LANDING - INTERIOR NIGHT

They come out of the apartment and start running along the

corridor on Billy's landing. They reach the staircase. Billy drops

a piece of clothing and picks it up. Larsen opens the door of the

elevator, and pushes Billy inside. He closes the door.

BILLY'S BUILDING - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen is ready to press the number 1 on the control panel, but

the button number 1 lights up by itself before Larsen presses

it.

       LARSEN

       They are coming.

Billy starts putting her panties on.

       LARSEN

       We are in great danger.

He looks down at Billy, who is still putting her panties on. He

takes the rest of Billy's clothes in his hands, and presses the

button number 3.

THIRD FLOOR LANDING - INTERIOR NIGHT

The elevator stops and Larsen opens the door. Billy walks out of

the elevator, and follows Larsen down the staircase.

SECOND FLOOR LANDING - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen and Billy are coming from the third floor and start going

downstairs toward the first landing. The elevator is going up with

two people inside. They look very much like Andy and Karen.

STREET IN FRONT OF BILLY'S BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen and Billy are coming out of the building.

       LARSEN

       Quick.

Larsen's car is parked just in front of the building. Larsen opens

the passenger's door for Billy, who climbs inside the car. Then he

walks around the car, open the driver's door and climbs inside. He

starts the engine.

A big black limousine, with two men inside, starts and follows

Larsen's car, which has just started. The driver is Wartschuk,

whom we have seen before with The Reaper, and who is The Reaper's

first assistant.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen gives a quick look in the rear-view mirror.

We see the headlights of the other car through the back window of

the car.

Billy resumes her dressing. When she puts her white sweater on,

without a bra, her breasts are showing. Larsen gives a quick

glance toward her, and then turns his head away. Billy looks back

at him, smiles and kisses him on the cheek.

       LARSEN

       It's not over yet.

Billy puts her jacket on. Larsen looks in the back-view mirror.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen and Andy enter the apartment and stop when they see the mess

around them. We realize that it was really them and not some

gangsters going up in the elevator.

       KAREN

       My...

       ANDY

       Oh, my God, it's trashed !

Karen rushes through the room. Andy remains on the doorstep.

       KAREN

       Billy, where are you ?

       ANDY

       I'll call the police !

BILLY'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is running through the corridor.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy picks up the telephone handset without noticing that the cord

has been cut.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is checking all the rooms to find her sister

       KAREN

       Billy ! Oh, Billy. Oh, my God !

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy is still trying to get a dialing tone

       ANDY

       How do you work this thing ? Oh, there it is.

Behind Andy, the front door is closing slowly, revealing Lyosha

standing behind it. He has the big wire-cutter in his hand, and is

ready to hit Andy with it. Andy looks at the cut cord, but doesn't

realize the telephone can't work with a cut cord.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen enters the bathroom

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear Karen screaming. Andy puts the telephone down on the table

and rushes across the room

BILLY'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is coming out of the bathroom, screaming.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy walks toward the corridor, but Karen meets him at the door.

       KAREN

       Someone's dead in the ba...

She doesn't finish her sentence, because she has just seen Lyosha

behind Andy. She grabs Andy and moves him out of the way of

Lyosha's wire-cutter. The wire-cutter smashes what is left of the

door of the corridor.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy and Karen run and enter a room, presumably Billy's bedroom,

and slam the door behind them.

       KAREN

       God ! Oh, my God !

Lyosha looks at the door, and doesn't even bother to smash it. He

slowly walks back to the living room. We hear Karen and Andy's

voices in the room.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Get the door ! Get a chair ! Get the chair !

       ANDY (voice over)

       What chair ?

       KAREN (voice over)

       The chair ! Out of the way ! Move ! Put it over there!

       ANDY (voice over)

       Move! Get the wardrobe over !

Lyosha enters the living-room through what remains of the door.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Andy, quick ! Push it !

APARTMENT BELOW BILLY'S - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The man, seated on his bed, stares at the ceiling, through which

we can hear Andy and Karen yelling. His wife has put the sheet

over her head to try not to hear the noise. The man stands up and

throws one of his slippers to the ceiling. Then he sits back,

while his wife stares at him.

       ANDY (voice over)

       I'm pushing ! Get out of the way !

       KAREN (voice over)

       What are you doing ?

       ANDY (voice over)

       I can't. Oh, my God !

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Lyosha sits down in an armchair and takes a pack of cigarettes out

of his pocket. But he doesn't take a cigarette. He gives a quick

look at the front door, and closes his eyes, ready to fall asleep.

The front door bursts open, and two uniformed policemen enters the

room, guns in hand. Lyosha looks at them without moving from his

chair, with a sort of look of indifference in his eyes. He shows

them the corridor, where we can still hear Andy and Karen yelling

in the bedroom. From Lyosha's attitude, we can guess that those

policemen are not real ones, but fake ones.

       KAREN (voice over)

       I can't. I can't ! You hold the door !

       ANDY (voice over)

       Get out of the way !

The two fake policemen cross the room.

       KAREN (voice over)

       Come here! Andy! Come here!

       ANDY (voice over)

       Don't yell at me! I'm trying to get the goddamn wardrobe

       near the fucking door!

       KAREN (voice over)

       Oh, my God!

Lyosha doesn't even look at them. He just smiles. Before going

through the smashed door into the corridor, one of the policeman

nods to his colleague, who takes his gun from his holster, aims,

and sends a bullet through Lyosha's head, whose blood splatters

the wall. The gun is equipped with a silencer, and doesn't make

much noise. Then the policeman goes through the smashed door to

join his colleague.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

While driving, Larsen talks to Billy.

       LARSEN

       The girl you saw murdered tonight...

Billy nods in approval.

       LARSEN

       ...her boyfriend stole a diskette full of information.

       Money, names, connections, everything. He blackmailed The

       Reaper. Very dangerous. And now he thinks that you have the

       diskette.

Billy mouth a word we can easily understand.

       BILLY

       Me ?

       LARSEN

       You have it ?... Huh ?

Billy is trying to think about the lost diskette.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy and Karen are kneeling on the floor, with their hands joined

behind their heads. One of the fake policeman is searching the

room, throwing everything off the shelves on the floor, while the

other one is aiming his gun at Andy and Karen. He is leaning on

the piano, and he throws all the objects, which are on top of the

piano, on the floor. He raises briefly the piano lid, and then

starts looking behind the picture hanging on the wall.

       ANDY

       We don't have any diskettes.

The policeman picks up a diskette he had thrown on the floor and

looks at it.

       ANDY

       Not that one. That's my script.

Karen hits Andy with her elbow. The policeman puts the diskette

into a small white plastic bag he is carrying around. He puts

another diskette in the bag. The other policeman is speaking in

Russian in a walkie-talkie.

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Wartschuk is answering the fake policeman on his own walkie-

talkie. Next to him, his passenger is screwing a silencer on his

gun.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The street is empty at this time of the night, but for the two

cars following each other.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

       LARSEN

       The girl had it when she went into the studio. Then she was

       murdered, and it was gone. Where is it ? Think. You were

       the only person there.

Close up shot on Billy's face trying to think about the mysterious

diskette. She has a short flashback of Arkadi taking the knife to

murder the actress. Then another one of the naked actress lying on

the bed. Then another one of the blood splattering the wall. Then

another one of Arkadi stabbing the girl.

       LARSEN

       Think.

Another short flashback of Billy going away from the   set. Then

another one of Billy bumping into the hatstand. Then   another one

of the girl's purse contents scattered on the floor.   Then another

one of the diskette skidding on the floor and hiding   under the

large wooden wardrobe.

Billy grabs Larsen's shoulder.

       LARSEN

       Write. Write it.

Billy takes a notepad and starts writing on it. But she is

interrupted by a Russian voice coming from somewhere in the car.

Larsen opens the glove compartment and takes a walkie-talkie out

of it. He talks in Russian in the talkie.

Billy looks at the pair of handcuffs in the glove compartment.

Larsen puts the talkie back in the compartment.

       LARSEN

       Write it.

They drive along a police station, but Larsen doesn't stop. Billy

looks a bit worried all of sudden.

       LARSEN

       Quick, write.

Billy shows the police station to Larsen. Then she writes Police

on the notepad.

       LARSEN

       Police ? Yes. Yes, but only with the diskette.

She writes Why ? on the notepad.

       LARSEN

       You know, I work undercover. The Reaper thinks I work for

       him. Trust me. Trust me.

She grabs the steering-wheel to force Larsen to park the car.

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the car windshield, we see Larsen's car zigzagging on the

street. The two passenger talks in Russian

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is trying to force Larsen to stop the car.

       LARSEN

       Crazy !

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the windshield, we see Larsen's car stopping near the

sidewalk. The two men talk nervously in Russian.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy hits Larsen violently on his private parts. Larsen moans.

Billy takes the handcuffs out of the glove compartment and ties

Larsen's hand on the steering-wheel.

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The two men look at Larsen's parked car. They see the passenger

door being opened.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy opens the door and gets out of the car.

       LARSEN

       They'll kill you !

Billy shows him the handcuffs key. Then she slams the door. Larsen

moves his hand nervously, but, of course, can't get it out of the

handcuff.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is running away from Larsen's car toward the other car.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen looks into the glove compartment and takes the talkie out

of it. He speaks in Russian into the talkie.

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Wartschuk answers Larsen in Russian.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen is yelling in the talkie, very excited.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is walking in the street and she suddenly stops. She sees a

ray of light on the sidewalk.

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the windshield, we see Billy who has stopped on the

sidewalk. She starts crossing the street, and the camera moves to

a nook between two building, near the car, and where a man is

hiding. Actually, he is Wartschuk's passenger.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen puts his gearshift into reverse and starts driving

backward.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Billy is walking in the middle of the street, and Larsen's car is

coming toward her. Billy starts running. Larsen's car turns around

to face Billy and starts again, driving forward.

The man, who was hiding between the two buildings, comes out of

his hiding nook and runs toward Larsen's car. Larsen stops and

starts driving backward again.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen is driving, looking in the rear windshield. He stops

suddenly.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The man walks in front of Larsen's car.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot on Larsen's feet. He steps on the accelerator.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The man falls on the hood of Larsen's car, where he remains lying

on his stomach.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

The man lying on the hood seen through the windshield of the car.

He yells at Larsen.

Close up on Larsen's feet. He steps on the brake.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The man falls from the hood and rolls on the street.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up on the gear shift. Larsen changes gear and looks through

the rear windshield.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The man stands up and starts running after Larsen's car, driving

backward again. The car reaches Billy, standing on the sidewalk.

The big black car, which was following Larsen, starts and turns

around.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen looks at Billy.

       LARSEN

       Get in !

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The man is running toward Larsen's car.

Billy looks at him, and hesitates on her next move. But she

decides to climb in Larsen's car.

The big black car is coming toward them.

       LARSEN

       Get in!

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy climbs into the back of the car and closes the door.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The man reaches Larsen's car just as it drives away. The man

remains on the sidewalk with a mean look on his face. The black

limousine stops near him and he climbs inside.

LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Billy looks through the rear windshield at the car following them.

Larsen has a hard time driving with his hand tied on the steering

wheel.

       LARSEN

       Please, give me the keys.

Billy nods her head No. Larsen gives her the notepad.

       LARSEN

       Write. Where is the diskette ?

Billy looks at the following car.

       LARSEN

       We cannot escape in this car. Write. Write.

Billy starts writing. Then she shows the note pad to Larsen, who

reads it.

       LARSEN

       Studio. Where in the studio ?

Billy makes a No with her finger.

A STREET IN MOSCOW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen's car makes a left turn into another street.

THE CAR FOLLOWING LARSEN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the windshield, we see Larsen's car turning into the

adjacent street. Wartschuk speaks in his talkie.

       WARTSCHUK

       Delta three.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

One of the fake policeman picks up his talkie from the table

       WARTSCHUK (voice over from the talkie)

       Delta three.

The policeman answers Da, then listen to Wartschuk speaking in

Russian. He says Da again and a few more words. Karen and Andy

look at him, with a worried look on their face. Wartschuk answers

him. Apparently, Andy understood a few words, because he says :

       ANDY

       What ?

The policeman drops the talkie on the table and talks to his

colleague.

       ANDY

       What ?

The other policeman walks near Andy and Karen, raising his gun.

       ANDY

       This is all a big misunderstanding and... Excuse me, but

       this is...

The first policeman takes Andy's hands and cuffs them behind his

back.

       ANDY

       You don't have to arrest us. Why is he arresting me ? This

       is ridiculous. I'm an American citizen. Do you understand

       what I'm saying ? Now, I'm a director.

Karen turns her head and looks at the dead Lyosha.

       ANDY

       You know, I'm directing a movie here in Moscow. I'm

       bringing a lot of money in this place.

The policemen don't seem to take any notice of what Andy is

saying. One is still cuffing his hands while the other one is

holding his gun.

       ANDY

       And my father, okay, he knows a lot of big people, and...

       Listen.

The policeman raises Andy to his feet and moves him away from

Karen.

       ANDY

       You want money ? Is that what you want ?

The policeman has seated Andy on an armchair. He bends him down

and puts the barrel of his gun on Andy's neck.

       ANDY

       I don't understand what is going on here. We don't have a

       diskette !

       FAKE POLICEMAN # 1

       You have one more chance to tell me where is diskette.

Since the policemen are not looking at her, Karen moves slowly on

the floor.

       ANDY

       The diskette. You know, I mean, this is ridiculous. We

       don't have a diskette. That's what I'm saying.

The policeman clicks his gun in a ready to shoot position.

Karen grabs the carpet with both hands and pulls it violently.

The small telephone table falls on the floor, but also the

policeman who was ready to kill Andy. In his fall, he pulls the

trigger of his gun, which shoot a bullet at the other policeman,

who falls dead on the floor.

Andy tries to get off the armchair, but just falls down with it.

Karen picks up the telephone handset, with its cut cord hanging

from it. She rushes to the first policeman, and starts hitting him

on the head with the handset. Andy stands up.

       ANDY

       Karen, get the key ! Get the key ! Unlock me !

APARTMENT BELOW BILLY'S - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The couple was eventually asleep, but with what is happening now

in Billy's apartment, they wake up. The man switches the light on.

We hear Andy yelling.

       ANDY (voice over)

       Find the key !

The man swears in Russian and puts his night robe on.

       ANDY (voice over)

       He's not gonna move, is he ? Okay, okay.

BILLY'S APARTMENT - LIVING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is unlocking Andy's handcuffs. When it's done, Andy massages

his hands and puts his jacket back on. Karen drops the handcuffs

on a table.

       ANDY

       Right. Let's get out of here.

Close shot on the talkie lying on the floor.

       WARTSCHUK (voice over from the talkie)

       Delta three. Delta three.

Andy and Karen look at the talkie.

       KAREN

       Answer it.

       ANDY

       Why ?

       KAREN

       They may say something about Billy.

       WARTSCHUK (voice over from the talkie)

       Delta three.

Karen picks up the talkie and gives it to Andy.

       ANDY (with an exaggerated deep voice)

       Da.

Of course, he gets an answer in Russian.

       ANDY

       Da.

He gets another Russian answer, but the word studio is clearly

understandable.

       ANDY

       Da.

Karen takes the talkie out of his hands and throws it.

       KAREN

       I got something about studio. Come on.

The policeman, who had been knocked out by Karen, is slowly waking

up. Karen sees him and yells.

       KAREN

       Look out !

Karen picks up a gun and points it at the policeman. Andy grabs a

wooden armchair and crashes it on the policeman's back. The

armchairs breaks apart. The policeman falls down, unconscious.

The door opens and the next floor neighbor walks in. He yells

something in Russian. Karen turns toward him, with the gun still

pointed in front of her. The man look at the mess, the dead

bodies... and the gun. He raises his arms above his head. Andy

throws away the pieces of armchair he still had in his hands.

Karen puts the gun behind her back.

       ANDY

       Mmm... It's not what you think. What do you say ?... How do

       you ?... In Russian, what ?...

Karen says a couple of words in Russian. Andy turns toward her.

       ANDY

       What ? What does that mean ?

       KAREN

       Hel...

       ANDY

       Hello ? We need help !

The man starts talking rapidly in Russian.

       ANDY

       I'm a director, and I'm making a movie here. This is not a

       movie.

The man hasn't stopped talking. Actually, he and Andy have been

talking together. Now he yells something in Russian. Andy turns

toward Karen.

       ANDY

       Put the gun away. You look like a hit man. He thinks we're

       gonna kill him !

Andy took the gun from Karen and now he is waving it at the man.

       KAREN

       We're not gonna kill you !

       ANDY

       This is not even ours !

       KAREN

       The policemen wanted to kill us !

The man turns around and runs out of the apartment, yelling in

Russian.

       KAREN

       We gotta get out of here.

       ANDY

       Well, I think we should call the cops.

       KAREN

       Are you crazy ?

       ANDY

       Well, we can explain this.

       KAREN

       Explain ? You are crazy. Come on. Here.

She has a gun in her hand and she gives him another gun. She runs

out of the apartment. Andy takes the handcuffs from the table.

       ANDY

       I'll take these too.

He follows Karen out of the apartment.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Close shot on the entrance of the studio, where a plate says

something in Russian and underneath : Central Film Studio.

Larsen's car enters the studio. It stops near the building.

We see Billy and Larsen through the windshield. Larsen shows his

handcuff to Billy.

       LARSEN

       And now ?

Billy tries to get out of the car, but she can't open the back

door.

       LARSEN

       Child locks.

Billy gets the key out of her pocket and gives it to Larsen, who

unlocks the handcuff.

He gets out of the car and closes the door. He goes around the car

to open Billy's door. As he is doing it, he sees car headlights

coming his way.

       LARSEN

       Don't look now, but our friends are still here.

They both runs toward the building. He opens a big metal door and

they enter the building.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

This is the unused set, where Billy went, at the beginning of the

story, when she found herself locked in. It has metal doors

opening directly on the parking lot.

Billy pulls the big bolt that locks the door from the inside. Then

Larsen puts a padlock on the bolt.

       LARSEN

       I will block the other entrances.

They both walk away.

MOSCOW - A STREET NEAR RED SQUARE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Karen's car is driving full speed toward The Red Square. When she

takes a turn, the tires are screeching on the macadam and the car

zigzags a little.

KAREN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT.

Through the windshield, we see a small roadblock with lights on

it. It is not permitted to cross Red Square during the night.

       ANDY

       What... what are you doing ? That... that's Red Square.

MOSCOW - RED SQUARE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The car rushes toward the roadblock.

KAREN'S CAR - INTERIOR NIGHT.

When he sees the roadblock coming toward him, Andy slides down

under the dashboard.

       ANDY

       Oh, perfect.

MOSCOW - RED SQUARE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Without even slowing down, Karen's car smashes through the

roadblock. The debris are flying around. And the car keeps on

driving full speed toward Red Square.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Wartschuk and his passenger are walking on the empty yard, guns in

hand. Voices are coming from their walkie-talkie. Several cars are

entering the parking lot behind them. The cars stop in front of

the building. Men carrying machine guns are coming out of the

cars.

Wartschuk directs the whole operation with his walkie-talkie.

A man tries to open the big metal door, but it's locked. He yells

something in Russian to Wartschuk, who answers him and points at

something. Apparently, he tells him to go around the building,

because the man starts running away.

Just outside the parking lot, Karen's car is coming to a stop near

the entrance. We hear the Russian voices in the parking lot. Karen

and Andy get out of the car. Karen walks to the entrance of the

parking lot and peeks inside. Andy joins her, trying to make his

gun work.

       ANDY

       This damn gun, I can't work the safety.

Karen shushes him down. They both peek inside, and they are

surprised to see such a number of big black cars.

       ANDY

       Holy shit !

Wartschuk is giving orders through his walkie-talkie. A man with a

machine-gun walks away from him.

Back to Karen and Andy, still standing outside the entrance.

       KAREN

       Around the back.

They run across the entrance. The men, all looking toward the

building, don't see them.

Wartschuk is still giving orders. All the men with machine-guns

are scattering around the building. Someone is calling Wartschuk

through his talkie. Wartschuk smiles. He walks away from his men.

On the other side of the studio compound, Karen and Andy are

entering the place by climbing over the wall. Karen is already in

the place and she is helping Andy to join her. For the moment, he

is sitting on top of the wall and he throws the two guns to her.

Then he goes down himself. Karen holds his legs.

       KAREN

       Okay. Jump, Andy. I got you.

       ANDY

       What ?

       KAREN

       I got you. I got you.

Andy falls down heavily on the ground.

On a balcony on a near building, a man is watching the yard with a

flashlight. This is the balcony which Billy fell from.

Andy and Karen are crossing the yard, trying to be as discrete as

possible.

Wartschuk is climbing rapidly up an emergency ladder to meet the

man with the flashlight.

Karen and Andy, lying low, are coming slowly toward the building.

Wartschuk has reached the balcony where the man is watching the

yard. They whisper in Russian. Then Wartschuk goes inside,

actually through that same emergency door through which Billy

tried earlier to escape. The watcher closes the door behind him.

Andy and Karen are still crawling slowly toward the building.

On the balcony, the man is smoking a cigarette.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

This is the set where the poor actress was murdered.

Larsen is trying to use a telephone on the wall.

       LARSEN

       It's no use. All lines are cut.

Billy is watching Larsen. Behind her, we see Wartschuk peeking

through the half-open door.

       LARSEN

       Where is it ?

Billy shows him the ancient-looking wardrobe under which the

diskette is hidden. He bends down. Then he raises and takes a

piece of wood from a rack. He slides the piece of wood under the

wardrobe.

Wartschuk enters silently on the set.

Larsen gets the diskette out of its hiding place. Billy picks it

up. Behind her, Wartschuk has got his gun out. Billy stands up

with the diskette in her hand. She smiles. Wartschuk grabs her

from the back. She throws the diskette. Larsen catches it.

       LARSEN

       You helped us a lot, Billy. Thank you.

Larsen puts discreetly the diskette in Wartschuk's pocket.

       WARTSCHUK

       The Reaper wants to meet the woman who has kept him up all

       night and witnessed a live snuff.

He gives his gun to Larsen.

       WARTSCHUK

       He wants you to do it.

       LARSEN

       You know why we call him The Reaper ? You see his face, you

       die.

Billy spits in Larsen's face. Then she yells silently, because

Wartschuk is squeezing her a little tighter. Larsen wipes the spit

from his face. Larsen raises his gun, holding it by the barrel.

Billy looks very frightened, because she knows that Larsen is

going to knock her out. But the butt of the gun lands violently...

on Wartschuk's head, who screams and falls heavily on the floor.

Billy looks from Larsen to the falling man, not understanding

clearly what happened.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR

Andy is hiding behind a trash can. He looks up at the watcher on

the balcony. He finally comes out of his hiding place, but bumps

into a beer can lying on the ground. The watcher says something in

Russian and points his flashlight toward Andy.

       ANDY

       Nice night, isn't it ?

Karen is slowly going around the pile of empty film boxes on which

Billy fell earlier.

       ANDY

       I'm just taking a piss. Right, you know, just...

The watcher walks slowly down the ladder. Karen reaches the

ladder, climbs on something we don't see, and catches the

watcher's foot through the steps of the ladder. The man falls and

rolls all the way down the ladder. He is unconscious and Andy ties

his wrist to the ladder with the handcuff. Karen joins him. Andy

seems very happy about the successful operation.

The Reaper's black limousine is entering the parking lot.

Karen, who has started to go up the steps of the ladder, looks at

the limousine.

       KAREN

       Who the hell is that ?

       ANDY

       Well, whoever it is, they're coming here.

They reach the balcony and enter the building.

The Reaper's car is driving toward the building, with all the men,

equipped with machine guns, watching his arrival.

CINEMA STUDIO - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen and Andy are running along the long corridor. Andy is still

trying to work out the safety of his gun.

       ANDY

       I can't work the safety.

       KAREN

       Andy, come on.

       ANDY

       Yeah, yeah, I'm coming.

He falls down, dropping all the bullets on the floor.

       KAREN

       Hurry !

Andy picks up his bullets, stands up and runs after Karen.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The Reaper's car is still surrounded by all the guards in arms.

We see only the shadow of The Reaper inside his car.

       THE REAPER

       Where is she, Larsen ?

We guess he is talking into a walkie-talkie.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

This is the unused film set, with large metal doors opening on the

parking lot

Karen enters the gallery above the room, followed by Andy. She

bends down, and makes him bend down.

       THE REAPER (voice over from the talkie)

       Larsen, are you reading me ?

       KAREN (whispering)

       Somebody's coming.

       ANDY (whispering)

       I'm waiting.

Down below, on the set itself, Billy is walking, with Larsen

behind her, pointing a gun in her back.

       LARSEN (answering The Reaper)

       I'm bringing her out now.

On the gallery, Andy is still trying to work his gun.

       KAREN

       Shoot him. Shoot him, Andy.

       ANDY

       Okay.

Andy shoots, misses Larsen, and hits a statue.

Larsen and Billy try to hide from the shooter.

Andy shoots again and misses again.

       KAREN

       Be careful of Billy ! God.

Karen runs along the gallery, while Andy shoots and misses again.

And once again. Then he realizes that the gun is empty and he

drops it on the floor of the gallery. He runs after Karen.

Down below, Larsen brings Billy near the big metal door opening on

the outside. He unlocks the padlock that he had put earlier on the

bolt of the door.

Karen rushes toward them.

       KAREN (yelling)

       Billy !

Larsen pulls the bolt open. Billy is very surprised to see her

sister. Larsen points his gun at her and yells something in

Russian.

Karen stops running, but Billy makes large signs to her, signs she

doesn't seem to understand. Karen hides, and then comes out.

       LARSEN

       Stay where you are !

Karen throws a piece of metal at Larsen. The piece of metal hits

his hand and he drops his gun.

       KAREN (yelling)

       Run, Billy. Run ! Run !

Billy opens the big metal door. Andy runs in to join Karen. Larsen

picks up his gun, and points it at Billy.

       LARSEN

       Stand back !

But Billy is already out of the building.

       KAREN (yelling)

       Not out there !

Andy grabs Karen and pulls her out of Larsen's gun.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Billy runs out of the building. An army of men, armed with

machine-guns, is waiting for her. The cars' drivers all switched

their headlights on high beams. With all that light in front of

her, Billy doesn't see anymore where she is going and stops

running.

The Reaper, still in his car, bends down to look at her. He takes

his walkie-talkie.

       THE REAPER

       Kill her, Larsen.

Larsen walks out of the building, and we hear the end on The

Reaper's sentence coming from his own walkie-talkie.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen and Andy rush to the window, to look at what is happening on

the parking lot.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Billy looks at the men in front of her with a frightened face. She

turns around to look at Larsen pointing his gun at her. Then she

turns back to the men in front of her, and especially The Reaper,

looking at her from his car. Behind her, Larsen aims his gun at

her.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen and Andy are still looking through the window.

       KAREN (yelling)

       No !

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen closes one eye before shooting. He shoots seven times. We

see the bullets going through Billy's body from the back, and

coming out through the front, making red bloody spots on her white

sweater. Billy falls down on her stomach, and remains motionless

on the ground with her arms spread apart.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen, still standing behind the window, can't believe what she

just saw.

Through the window, we see Billy's body lying on the ground, with

all the big black cars surrounding her.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Through the half-open door, Larsen shows The Reaper the diskette

he has found on the set.

The Reaper smiles. The big metal door closes as Larsen goes back

inside.

All the men go back inside their cars. The engines start. And the

cars start driving out, The Reaper's car being the first one to

go.

Billy is still lying motionless on the ground, her blood flowing

slowly on the tarmac.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

Karen is in Andy's arms, crying.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The last cars are leaving the parking lot.

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

Andy, with Karen crying on his laps, looks at Larsen coming back

in and closing the door.

       LARSEN

       Now please, let me explain. Please ?

       KAREN (yelling)

       Explain ?

She rushes out of Andy's arms and bumps violently into Larsen.

       ANDY

       Karen !

They both fall on the floor, and Larsen's gun flies away from his

hand. Karen hits Larsen very hard with both her fists. Andy picks

up the gun and points it at Larsen. Larsen pushes Karen away from

him. Karen takes the legs of a statue and hits Larsen with it.

Then she grabs Larsen by the ears and throws him on the metal

door. She turns toward Andy.

       KAREN

       Kill him.

Karen opens the door and walks out.

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Billy, still lying on the ground, opens one eye and smiles.

Karen runs out of the building and rushes toward her sister, who

stands up when she sees her. Karen stops and looks at her. Karen

sits up and raises her sweatshirt.

Underneath, she is equipped with the special effect system she

uses to pretend people are being shot. Little bags, full of fake

blood, explode one by one, tearing the piece of clothing in front

of them, and pouring the blood through the fabric. For the

spectator, it does looks like bullet going through a body and

blood spurting out.

Karen rushes to Billy and hugs her.

       KAREN

       You genius !

CINEMA STUDIO - FILM SET - INTERIOR NIGHT

Larsen is still kneeling on the floor. Andy is pointing the gun at

him, trying to look mean, which is a bit hard for him.

       ANDY

       You thought we were tourists, huh ? Guess again, pal.

Larsen is slowly getting up.

       ANDY

       Don't move. Don't move! I'm talking to you !

He shoots the gun to the ceiling.

       ANDY

       I'm warning you. Don't move or I'm gonna shoot you ! Okay !

He shoots at Larsen, who doesn't react and walks closer to him. He

shoots twice more, walking backward. He bumps into a prop and

falls down on his back... next to Wartschuk, all tied up and with

a large piece of tape across his mouth. Wartschuk moans, Andy

screams and gets quickly up. He rushes out of the building while

Larsen is trying to get over what just happened to him

CINEMA STUDIO - PARKING LOT - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Andy rushes out of the building and sees Karen cleaning Billy's

face.

       ANDY

       Billy ! Billy ! Billy !

       KAREN

       She's okay. She's fine.

       ANDY

       She's fine ? She's okay ?

Billy mouth the words I'm fine and shows him the special effect

device on her stomach. Larsen comes behind her and takes her by

the shoulder, saying a few words in Russian. Billy says something

in sign language to Karen.

       KAREN

       A cop ?

       ANDY

       A cop ?

       KAREN

       Oh, my God, I'm sorry.

       ANDY

       Sorry.

       LARSEN

       Forget it. Your sister was brilliant.

Karen pats Larsen's shoulder.

       KAREN

       Next time, hit back.

Larsen throws a remote control into Andy's hands.

       ANDY

       Oh !... this is the remote. I get it.

They all laugh. Larsen pats Andy's shoulder.

       LARSEN

       Big cowboy.

Billy starts talking in sign language to Larsen. He turns toward

Karen.

       LARSEN

       What ?

       KAREN

       That was an invitation to dinner sometime.

       LARSEN

       How you say ?... It would be a pleasure.

Billy mouthes the word Pleasure and then makes the sign for it,

which is rubbing you stomach. Larsen makes the same sign. Then he

stops and seems to think about something.

       LARSEN

       I still don't understand.

       KAREN

       What ?

       LARSEN

       I don't understand why The Reaper didn't take the diskette

       off me.

       KAREN

       Who ?

The sound of a shot, and a blood bag explodes under Billy's

sweater. Karen screams. Since she was just in front of Billy, her

face is covered with fake blood. Andy looks at them, the remote

control in his hand.

       ANDY

       Whoops !... Shit. I'm sorry.

They all look at him. Larsen smiles.

       LARSEN

       Big cowboy.

A little later.

Andy drives his car near the entrance of the building. Billy walks

toward the car, looking at Wartschuk, his mouth still gagged,

being forced by Larsen to go inside his car. He moans

incomprehensible words, and seems not to want to get inside the

car.

Andy waves to Larsen.

       ANDY

       Ciao !...

Andy opens the back door of his own car to let Billy inside. But

she doesn't climb in, still surprised by Wartschuk's attitude.

Finally, Larsen succeeds in putting his prisoner in the back of

his car, where another prisoner, also gagged, is already waiting

(certainly the man that Andy had handcuffed earlier on the

emergency ladder).

Before climbing into the driver's seat, Larsen waves to Billy.

       LARSEN

       Billy, tomorrow !

He makes the pleasure sign. Billy waves back to him.

       LARSEN

       Tomorrow !

Billy looks at Wartschuk inside the car. She seems worried.

       ANDY

       What's the matter ?

Billy makes several signs. Andy doesn't understand, but he looks

at Larsen. Larsen smiles back to him.

       LARSEN

       Big cowboy.

Karen is already seated in the car, and doesn't understand the

reason for the delay.

       KAREN

       Guys, could we get out of here, please ?

Close shot on Wartschuk's face, who is trying to tell them

something.

Andy eventually understand what Billy is trying to tell him. It is

the word he learned earlier in the restaurant.

       ANDY

       The expression ?

Billy nods Yes. Larsen smiles to her and starts his car. Billy

slams violently on the roof of Andy's car. She seems frightened by

something. She yells silently.

       ANDY

       The car ?

Billy keeps on yelling silently and moving her arms. Andy is

beginning to understand what she means.

          ANDY

          The car...

Wartschuk looks more and more frightened.

Andy want to rush to Larsen's car, but Billy holds him back.

          ANDY (yelling)

          Get out of the car ! Get out of the car !

Watching Billy and Andy, Larsen has suddenly a worried look on his

face. He is beginning to understand that something is wrong. He

gets out of his car, walks a few steps, and then his car explodes

and he falls on the ground.

Andy, Billy and Karen, who is now out of her car, they all look at

the car burning and at the motionless Larsen lying on the ground.

Billy looks very sad.

But, slowly, Larsen begins to move. He sits up and looks at Billy.

Billy is crying and smiling at the same time. We get to understand

she must be in love with Larsen.

CREDITS

White letters on a black screen.

