"Entrapment", early, by Ronald Bass

                               ENTRAPMENT

                                                   Ronald Bass

                                                   First Draft Screenplay

                                                   December 2, 1996

                                                   Story by:

                                                   Ronald Bass

                                                   and Michael Herzberg

     EXT. HANCOCK TOWER, CHICAGO - LATE NIGHT

     Lake Shore Drive.  Four o'clock in the morning.  Minimal traffic,

     minimal life.  As MAIN TITLES BEGIN, we PAN UP the face of...

     ...Hancock Tower.  Up, up, forty floors, sixty, eighty, very dark

     up here, street sounds fading fast, and as CREDITS CONTINUE we can

     just make out...

     ...a dark FIGURE.  Like a spider.  Inching its way up the steel

     surface of the 98th floor, and we CLOSE to see...

     The THIEF.  All in black, nearly invisible, with a sleek visored

     helmet that conceals the face.  Two long, oblong backpacks, climb-

     ing ropes and harness across back and shoulders, tools at the belt.

     Moving STRAIGHT UP the face of the skyscraper.  How is it possible?

     CLOSER still to see...

     ...the piton-like BOLTS are electromagnetic, CLANKING to the steel

     to support weight.  A button releases the magnetic charge when the

     bolt is pulled up by cords to a higher position.  The Thief is

     remarkably strong and agile, scaling the wall with fluid precision,

     until...

     ...our summit.  A softly-lit, glass-walled PENTHOUSE on the

     100th floor.  Subtle spots which bathe paintings, sculptures,

     in a cavernous coldly-decorated space.

     Swiftly, deftly, the Thief rigs a suction-mounted HARNESS to the

     steel casing above a massive window.  Pulleys, metal caribiner

     clips, yellow Kevlar ropes.  So superbly practiced, the rigging is

     placed in seconds, huge SUCTION CUPS pressed to the surface of the

     glass.  The Thief reaches to a metal rectangle at the top of the

     rigging, touches a button, a motor WHINES, the ropes TIGHTEN and

     the window...

     ...POPS FREE, hangs SUSPENDED by the Kevlar ropes which amazingly

     sustain its awesome weight.  The huge pane shudders in the wind,

     and the Thief slips...

     ...INTO the Penthouse.  Nearby, an ALARM BOX softly BEEPS its

     60-second warning to the pulsing of a green light, and the Thief

     attaches a small computerized DEVICE which runs a series of

     possible CODES at dazzling speed on its display panel, until...

     ...the right one STOPS.  Illuminated in red.  The beeping, the

     green light, go OFF.  The device is removed.

     Back to the window, air rushing in, attach a similar suction-

     mounted harness from the inside, all exquisitely engineered to rig

     in seconds, press new suction cups to the inside of the dangling

     window pane.  A small remote control clicker...

     ...RELEASES the outside suction cups.  The window's weight now

     supported by the interior rigging.  The outside equipment pulled

     INTO the apartment in a single tug.  The WHINE of a motor, and the

     pane pulls UP, the Thief expertly POPPING it into place.

     No trace of entry.

     Rapidly folding the rigging into an astonishingly compact bundle,

     the Thief SCANS...

     ...the profusion of priceless art.  The paintings run to Otto Dix,

     Franz Marc, Marcel Duchamp.  One statue an obvious Rodin.  The soft

     lighting makes walls seem invisible, everything with an infinity

     perspective in mind.  An obsidian slab dining table that seems to

     end at the horizon.

     The Thief has packed the rigging away, taken out a large cylin-

     drical TUBE bearing a label we can't read.  Knows the way, quickly

     through the spectacular apartment, past oils by early German

     expressionists, Russian futurists, a Rothko, a Kandinsky, a Francis

     Bacon.  The Thief has no interest in these, and as CREDITS CONTINUE,

     we enter...

     ...a powder room.  A lime-green poured concrete sink, a copper-

     plated commode, and across from these...

     ...a single PAINTING.  Unlike the others, clearly an Old Master.

     A 17th century city on the water, churches, spires, an ancient

     bridge.  The Thief wastes no time, unceremoniously...

     ...CUTS the painting from its frame with sure, perfect strokes.

     Rolls it quickly in acid-free paper.  Opens the cylindrical tube,

     pulling out...

     ...another CANVAS which we cannot see.  Deftly unrolls this,

     fitting it carefully into the stolen painting's now-empty frame.

     Re-hangs it.  Stares for a beat through the opaque helmet visor.

     Approves.  Slips the rolled-up stolen canvas into the empty tube.

     Leaves.  Before we follow, we shift angle to see the replacement

     canvas...

     A cheerful acrylic portrait.  Bozo the Clown.

     WITH the Thief now, moving fast, into a panelled library.  There is

     a CHUTE built into the wall, a brass lid with the words U.S. MAIL.

     The Thief pops the labeled tube DOWN the chute.  Gone.  Steps...

     ...onto a bookshelf, reaches up to punch out an overhead grating,

     and...

     Disappears into the vent.  Reaching back to refit the grating

     seamlessly into place.

     INT. VENT

     Halogen flashlight leading the way, our Thief shimmies down the

     narrow space, arriving at...

     ...an open vertical AIR SHAFT, BLASTING air straight up the 100

     floor height of the skyscraper, with frightening FORCE.  Calmly,

     the Thief clips on a different harness, unzips a nylon cover from

     the backpack, and simply...

     LEAPS DOWN the air shaft, startling the shit out of us, as, for an

     instant...

     ...the force of the updraft seems to HOLD the Thief in place,

     suspended above 100 stories of nothingness.  Then suddenly, the

     Thief...

     ...DROPS SHARPLY, an exhilarating moment of absolute FREE FALL,

     until a cord is tugged and...

     ...a nylon PARACHUTE OPENS with a pop.  We watch the Thief drifting

     lazily down.  A ride any kid would pay big money for...

     EXT. HANCOCK TOWER - LATE NIGHT

     Our original exterior VIEW of the skyscraper's penthouse.  REVERSE

     ANGLE now to see in far distance...

     ...the dense forest of silhouetted OFFICE TOWERS of downtown

     Chicago against the night sky, and we ZOOM TOWARD them, covering

     miles in three seconds, to CLOSE on...

     ...the highest floor of the SEARS TOWER, and THROUGH an unlit

     window to see...

     ...a TELESCOPE.  A silhouetted FIGURE looking through it.  SNAP

     to...

     VIEW through the scope's lens.  An amazingly CLOSE detail of the

     Hancock Tower Penthouse.  The scope now PANS DOWN the length of the

     Tower, to...

     The street.  The Thief climbing onto a battered old Lambretta.

     Calm as you please.  And as the scooter glides off...

     We HEAR our unseen voyeur WALK AWAY from our telescope.  A door

     OPENS somewhere, and as CREDITS CONCLUDE, it...

     Closes.  Softly.

     INT. WEBBER ASSURANCE - DAY

     A basement corridor.  Long, bare, dimly lit.  Silent.  We're in the

     bowels of somewhere.  A startling CLANK, like a prison cell

     unlocking.  A FIGURE enters the corridor, coming this way, on the

     hurried side of brisk.

     HECTOR CRUZ is 42, tanned, fit, graying hair swept back in a Pat

     Riley do.  He wears Riley's Armani, too.  Maybe this guy coaches.

     Heels ECHO until he reaches a plain door with discreet lettering...

     NO ADMITTANCE FOR ANY REASON.  There is a dull silver rectangle

     below the words.  He holds his hand up to it...

     Nothing happens.  Shit.  Dries his palm on his perfectly-creased

     slacks.  One more time.  CLICK.  Enters...

     INT. SITUATION ROOM - DAY

     An unexpectedly VAST semi-circular room, the entire inner circum-

     ference made up of a single continuous WALL SCREEN, separated into

     a seamless array of IMAGES...

     Three-dimensional rotating GRAPHICS of every room in the Hancock

     Tower Penthouse, SCHEMATICS of electrical, plumbing, and ventila-

     tion systems.  See-through rotating multicolored models of every

     piece of security EQUIPMENT imaginable, components FLASHING as

     performance simulations are run.  Rapid-fire sequences of indiv-

     idual human PROFILES, complete with photos and bio blurbs.  Screens

     flickering with blizzards of DATA, hurtling past at warp speed.

     The Pentagon and CNN would kill for this room.

     The largest segment of screen, twenty feet square, runs a LIVE FEED

     from the crime scene.  The living room of the Penthouse, crawling

     with slow-moving cops and technicians, doing their slow-moving

     thing.  Surrounding this image are a dozen smaller screens, showing

     this and other rooms from a variety of camera angles.  All live.

     We see the library, the mail chute.  The powder room.  Bozo.

     Cruz skips down three steps to floor level, nine separate CONTROL

     STATIONS, each outfitted with super-tech panels to process the

     avalanche of information.  But today, all stations are empty.

     Except one.

                               CRUZ

                     Baker.  You got it solved?

     And now we see her.  From the rear.  Slouched at her station.

     Looks like a skinny teenager in tousled tawny hair, rumpled

     oversized workshirt, vintage jeans.

                               GIN (O.S., from the rear)

                     Actually.  Yeh.

     Not a kid's voice.  Throaty.  Music and whiskey and sex and

     effortless confidence.  Even the voice turns us on.

                               CRUZ (glances at his watch)

                     What took you so long, Gin?  I

                     called 4:30 this morn...

     And stops.  Because she turns with a look that would freeze anyone

     to stone.

                               GIN

                     I was with someone, all right?

     Now we really see her.  Delicate bones and features, slender body,

     radiating the power of a natural heart-stopping beauty.  GINGER

     BAKER is 32, ethereal and feral at once.  Electric green eyes

     crackle with an intellect and a will that are not to be fucked

     with.

                               CRUZ

                     So?  This is work.

     He is not kidding.  Stainless steel beneath the dapper.  They are a

     matched team.

                               GIN

                     Hector, I hardly know the guy.

                     Why be impolite to strangers?

     And he smiles.  Maybe she's lying.  He likes her.

                               CRUZ

                     Look at those assholes...

     He means the cops on live feed.

                               CRUZ

                     If the Vermeer were lying on that

                     table, they'd toss their doughnuts

                     on it.

                               GIN

                     Yeh, well, they didn't insure it,

                     so they don't 

have

 to solve this.

                     To them it's a crime.  To us it's 24

                     mil, less re-insurance, which is...

                               CRUZ (grim)

                     Only thirty percent, Gin.

     Ouch.  Really?

                               CRUZ

                     Which is why you're on this.

     Soft and straight.  You're the best.  I need you.

                               GIN

                     He came in through the window.

                               CRUZ

                     That's not possib...

                               GIN

                     What's not possible is entry through

                     the doors or the vents.  That would

                     have triggered instant alarm.

                               CRUZ

                     The windows are wired, too.

                               GIN

                     Only for trauma.  They used smart

                     glass, where the sensors respond to

                     violation of the panel's integrity.

     He's listening.  He always does with her.

                               GIN

                     I think he scaled the wall, popped

                     the frame.  In one piece.

     She sounds awfully positive.  Then again, she always does.

                               GIN

                     Then, he only had to deal with

                     heat and motion sensors.  They

                     were on 60-second delay, so the

                     owner wouldn't trigger the alarm

                     just be walking arou...

                               CRUZ

                     The pane weighs 200 pounds, the

                     building's 1100 feet high.

                               GIN

                     This particular guy is the best.

                     The best there ever was.

     Almost as if she knows who.  Cruz shakes his head...

                               CRUZ

                     Popping the frame would trigger

                     the alarm.

     She smiles.  First time.  Even at one-tenth power, it is dazzling

     light.  She touches the panel before her...

                               GIN (gently)

                     I wrote a program and ran it, Dumbo.

     The live feed is replaced by a red-outlined rotating three-

     dimensional DIAGRAM of the living room.  The alarm box glows green.

     One window pane glows lavender.  She touches the panel, and the

     window SHATTERS, the alarm instantly emits a PIERCING SCREECH.

     Reset.  As he watches.  This time the window SLIDES AWAY into

     thin air.  No sound.  A stick figure appears, crawls through the

     opening, and the alarm begins the slow BEEP we heard last night.

     Cruz just stares.

                               GIN

                     Here's how I figured it out...

     Live feed replaces the diagram.  Our camera ZOOMS toward a VASE of

     lilies by the window.  All the flowers are tilted in one direction.

     Over the lip of the vase, away from the window.

                               GIN

                     No one arranges flowers like that.

                     It was the draft from the window.

     He turns to her.

                               CRUZ

                     You said.  This particular guy.

     Now she is beaming.  Excited.  And just above a whisper...

                               GIN

                     Andrew MacDougal.

     Delighted at his stupefied reaction.

                               CRUZ

                     Why not Houdini?  Or Pretty Boy

                     Floyd?  Maybe Jesus Christ.

                               GIN

                     Because they couldn't do it.

     His slow smile.  This fucking kid.

                               CRUZ

                     He's been out of the business.

                     For ten 

years

.

                               GIN

                     Maybe not.  No one ever proved,

                     hell, even 

arrested

 him, for

                     stealing 

anything

.  But we all

know

 he was numero ichiban for

                     thirty years.  Why not forty?

     She's serious.

                               CRUZ

                     Why?  Because of the Bozo switch?

                     Guys have been copying his pack-

                     rat signature for 

decades

.  Maybe

                     the thief wanted it to 

look

 like

                     MacDougal.

     She doesn't even answer.  Just touches her panel, and one of the

     data screens BLOWS UP to huge size.  It is...

                               GIN

                     A list of his private collection.

                     Complete to three acquisitions

                     last Thursday.

     Names SCROLLING up endlessly, next to titles, descriptions,

     estimated retail 

and

 black market values.  Turner, Corot, Thomas

     Coles, DeKooning, Klimt, Cezannes, Odilon Redon, Braques, Mary

     Cassatt...

                               CRUZ

                     No Vermeer.  Nothing close.

                               GIN

                     Don't be a putz.  This is his

legitimate

 collection, which he

buys

.  Presentable for any search

                     warrant surprise party.

     Names keep rolling, Degas, Paul Klee.  Amazing.

                               GIN

                     What he rips off, he fences.  And

                     the money feeds his portfolio of

                     investments, which are daring, savvy,

                     and obscenely succesf...

                               CRUZ

                     Oh, I get it.  He has no interest

                     in Vermeers, so that proves he stole

                     one.  By that logic, he oughta be a

                     suspect most of the time.

     She shakes her head, sadly.

                               GIN

                     You love to embarrass yourself.

     Touches her panel.  The big screen now shows a grainy VIDEOTAPE

     of...

                               GIN

                     The auction.  Where our client

bought

 the painting...

     We see the Great Room of an English Country estate.  Perhaps a

     hundred attend.  Genteel to the max.

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     Ashcroft Hall, Buckinghamshire,

                     four 

weeks

 ago.

     The tape PANS five PAINTINGS on the block.  We recognize our

     VERMEER, the city of Delft, the canal, the bridge.  The view PULLS

     BACK to include the crowd, and...

     FREEZES.  One tiny section is circled.  And BLOWS UP twenty feet.

     high, so blurry as to be unrecognizable.  Then, SNAPS to amazing

     resolution.  The image of...

                               GIN (O.S., murmur)

                     Anyone we know?

     ...ANDREW MacDOUGAL, perhaps 60, as charismatic and shamelessly

     virile a face as one can recall.  Etched with character and worldly

     experience, lit by a twinkle behind the razor-keen gaze.  Tall,

     wide shoulders, massive hands.  This guy would be more fun to fuck

     than fight.  By a lot.

                               CRUZ

                     So he was there.

                               GIN

                     Staking it out.  Why bid, when

                     you can mark the buyer, and jack

                     it within the month?

     She leans WAY back in the molded chair.  Lifts her long legs

     up onto the console.  They end in slender bare feet.  The toes

     wriggle.

                               GIN

                     At this moment, he is winging on

                     JAL flight 307 to Narita, 

ostensibly

                     to attend a prestigious auction at

                     the Hotel Akura, which will include

                     a mixed media collage/oil by Georges

                     Braques, on which he 

supposedly

 has

                     his eye.

                               CRUZ

                     But you know better.

                               GIN

                     Bet your ass.  At Vegas odds.

     Touches the panel.  The big screen now holds three faces, three

     names.

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     Research reveals three known fences,

                     still at large, who are believed

                     to have brokered Vermeers to black

                     market buyers.  Sandrine Palmer is

                     hospitalized in Malta with ovarian

                     cancer.

     One face and name disappears.  Two remain.  KOICHI NARUHITO.

     HIROYUKI YAMAJI.

                               GIN

                     The other two.  Live in Tokyo.

     A tiny, dry, adorable, shrug.  Which says, bingo.

                               CRUZ

                     And you did all this since 4:30

                     this morning.

     Grinning small at each other.  She can't help that hers is hot.

     She never can.

                               CRUZ (murmur)

                     Plus.  You were polite to a

                     stranger.

     One of those moments when his attraction to her is too obvious to

     ignore.  Best to defuse by pretending it's a joke...

                               GIN (soft and playful)

                     Sounds like you're sorry you're

                     already a friend.

     Said as banter between pals.  Which doesn't make her wrong.

     INT. HOTEL OKURA, TOKYO - NIGHT

     Auction in progress in the huge traditional LOBBY, where bonsai

     trees, paper lanterns and elaborate painted screens counterpoint

     the sleek, international, big-money crowd.  Everyone milling,

     drinking, schmoozing, networking in a babble of languages, as up

     on the raised platform...

     ...the AUCTIONEER has a new piece on the block, a 6th Century

     temple scroll, from the Asuka period.  It is exquisite, and bidding

     seems to be big time, from the rapidly escalating numbers on the

     overhead DIGITAL DISPLAY, which reveals bidding status in thirty

     currencies simultaneously. As we PAN the hall, we see...

     ...all non-Asians either wearing headphones, or acompanied by

     personal translators at their elbow, to follow the rapid-fire

     auctioneer.

     Except one.

     ANDREW MacDOUGAL stands alone in black tie.  Tall and rugged and

     polished and focused, and, well, pretty gorgeous.  He is bidding on

     the scroll, indicated only by subtle gestures with his program and

     the repeated finger-stabs of the auctioneer in our direction.

                               WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S., subtitled Japanese)

                     Don't do it.

     PULL BACK slightly to reveal Gin, who has stepped to his shoulder.

     She is barely recognizable to us in her satiny slip of a pale

     golden gown that drapes her frame perfectly.  Breathtaking would

     be an insult.

     MacDougal doesn't turn, doesn't seem to even hear her.  Just raises

     his program to up the bid.

                               GIN (softly, subtitled Japanese)

                     You're already over value.  By

                     15 percent.

     And now he turns.  Straight to her eyes.  This is NOT an admiring

     glance at seeing the loveliest woman in the Northern Hemisphere.

     It is a look that says, in the most understated terms, shut up or

     I'll kill you.  She shuts up.

     His glance goes to his obvious bidding RIVAL, a rather butch

     middle-aged Chinese woman in an embroidered version of a Mao suit.

     She indicates her bid by gesturing with a tiny Yorkshire Terrier,

     whom she holds in her stubby hands.  MacDougal raises back.

                               GIN (subtitled Japanese)

                     Will you stop being stubborn

                     for one sec...

     And stops.  Because he has turned.  With the eyes of a lion.  Being

     pulled from an antelope carcass.

                               MAC (quietly, subtitled Japanese)

                     I have a question.

     Rich Scottish voice.  Impeccable Japanese intonation.

                               GIN (brightly, subtitled Japanese)

                     Who the fuck am I?

                               MAC (subtitled Japanese)

                     That is of no interest.

     Oh.  In spite of herself, she looks a little hurt.

                               GIN (subtitled Japanese)

                     What, then?

                               MAC (subtitled Japanese)

                     Why.  Are we speaking.  Japanese?

     Her eyes move across his formidable face.

                              GIN

                     Uh.  I'm showing off.

     His eyes scan the length of her gown.  Her body.

                               MAC

                     Something of a habit?

     She is minus a comeback.

                               MAC

                     You know the alleged value of this

                     piece from some fucking 

computer

,

                     which has no 

clue

 of the price I

                     can turn the scroll around for in

                     30 

minutes

.

     A beat.

                               GIN

                     No, you can't.

     He blinks.  No?

                               GIN (

really

 sorry)

                     It's sold.

     His great head WHIPS around to see Madame Mao KISSING her pooch,

     flushed with victory.  He stares for a long moment, a veneer of

     philosophical almost masking his rage.  When he turns back...

                               MAC

                     Are you a confederate of my

                     adversaries?  Or are you just

                     stupid.

     And walks.  Away.

     HOLD on her.  Feeling like both.

     EXT. HOTEL OKURA - NIGHT

     Mac among the guests awaiting their cars, standing slightly apart.

     From behind him...

     ...a feminine throat clears.  Nervously.  He closes his eyes for a

     beat.  Then, turns.

                               GIN (softly)

                     How about.  If I try humility.

     And presents a business card to him with both hands, Japanese-

     style.  Mac looks in her eyes.  Takes the card with both hands.

     Reads...

                               MAC

                     Virginia Romay...

                               GIN

                     Gin, actually, Gin Romay.  I

                     was named after a card game.

                               MAC

                     Or a cheap cocktail.

     She blinks.  His brows raise...

                               MAC (softly)

                     As in.  I'll have a Gin Romay,

                     please.  With a twist.

     That laser, unsmiling stare.  Beyond sexy.  She gets lost in it for

     a beat.

                               GIN

                     You're supposed to be charming.

                               MAC

                     I'm supposed to be selective.

     Glances back to her card.  Reads...

                               MAC

                     Art and Antiquities Acquisition

                     Advisor, how alliterative...

     Looks up.  Still no smile.

                               MAC

                     And am I the antiquity?

                               GIN

                     In mint condition.

     She sighs.  Achingly lovely.

                               GIN

                     Look, I've studied you, I know...

                     pretty much...everything.

     Do you.

                               GIN

                     Made your first millions selling

                     scrap metal.  Then, gold mining

                     concessions, gems, art, and lately

                     strategic metals for new technologies

                     - platinum, zirconium, titanium...

                               MAC

                     You said.  Everything.

     Huh?  Oh.

                               GIN

                     The cat burglar stories?  Why

                     would anyone...with so much to

                     lose...take those kinds of risks?

     Guileless smile.

                               GIN

                     You'd have to be.  Stupid.

     A held beat.  His glance lifts beyond her shoulder.

                               MAC

                     Excuse me.

     And walks off toward a sleek custom TOURING CAR just pulling up.

     She goes after him.

                               GIN

                     I didn't know Porsche made

                     things like this.

                               MAC

                     Well, they don't...

     Tipping the valet.  Sliding in...

                               MAC

                     ...as a rule.

     Shutting the door.  Through the open window, she hands something

     from her bag.  A plastic rectangle which OPENS into a slide viewer.

     She presses the light ON.  He looks at the slide.

                               GIN

                     Recognize that?

     No reaction.

                               GIN

                     My seller is in Shinjuku, we can

                     go there tonight.

     She leans closer.

                               GIN

                     He wants 4.6 million.  I can

                     get it for three.

     He hands it back.  Looks in her eyes.

                               MAC

                     No, you can't.

     And TAKES OFF.  Her jaw drops slightly, but in one fluid motion...

     She's hailed a cab.

     INT. IMPERIAL HOTEL BAR - LATER

     Graceful, timeless room, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in the

     '20s.  Burnished.  Elegant.  Way cool.  A place to drink, to deal,

     to dream.  PAN down the polished surface of the bartop, til we

     come to...

     ...a tropical DRINK.  Cute little umbrella, tilted back toward the

     room.  ROTATE ANGLE to see...

     ...INSIDE the umbrella, something small, something mechanical.  A

     woman's HAND ADJUSTS the point of the umbrella ever so slightly,

     and we PAN UP her arm to see...

     ...Gin.  Still in her gown.  She is reading, with half-glasses, and

     one of the bows curls around her ear, which we CLOSE on to hear...

     ...static.  Gin adjusts the drink umbrella, which is a directional

     mike, and hears...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     ...only it's not bloody 

football

!

     SNAP to Mac's table, well across the room.  Drinking giant beers

     with a large, 

really

 fat Japanese guy in a costly; if wrinkled,

     suit.  The hulk listens with stone attention to Mac's rant, as if

     he actually gave a shit.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     ...it's just that crap Americans

call

 'football', like you could

                     call your ass a butterscotch scone

                     and have it 

be

 one!

     The guy nods seriously.  Maybe he's a Sumo dude.

                               MAC

                     Why you'd want to bring that

                     foolishness to 

Japan

, you're

                     just pissing your investment

                     down a 

bungee

 hole.

                               SUMO GUY (major accent)

                     You got Cubano this trip?

     That he does.  Mac pulls out a leather cigar holder, and passes it

     over.  Flat against one side is an ENVELOPE, which Sumo Guy PALMS

     skillfully, slipping it seamlessly INTO his pocket as he withdraws

     a small MATCH BOX.  Takes out one long cigar, lights up...

                               MAC

                     Seriously, put the money into

                     pharmaceuticals or prostitution,

                     something 

stable

.

     The big guy pushes the cigar holder and match box back toward Mac.

     Opening the box, Mac sees one match and a small MICROCHIP fastened

     to the cardboard.  Lights up.  Slides the match box in his pocket.

                               MAC

                     Garbage, perhaps.  Or industrial

                     plastics.

     ANGLE...Gin still engrossed in her reading.  A figure leans down

     next to her.  She startles, slightly.  So surprised to see...

                               MAC

                     My favorite thing in life.

                     Coincidence.

     She gives him the great smile.

                               GIN

                     I'm staying here, what's your

                     excuse?

     And now he smiles.  First time ever.  A little chilling, the way he

     does it.

                               MAC

                     Staying here, as well.  You

                     are in room...?

                               GIN (half a beat)

                     One thirty-eight.

     In one motion, he flags the bartender...

                               MAC

                     Will you send a half-bottle of

                     Chateau d'Yquem '67 to Room 138,

                     please?  And some berries and

                     chocolates for the lady to enjoy

                     it with.

     He presses some currency into the barkeep's hand.  Turning back...

                               MAC

                     Actually, I was just across the

                     room, dickering with a gentleman

                     over the purchase of an interesting

                     Spitzweg.  Until I determined the

                     painting was apparently stolen...

     Oh.   She's shocked.  He agrees...

                               MAC

                     Goes against my grain.  The

                     DeKooning in your slide, the 4.6

                     million you can get for 3.  Can

                     you get it for 2 and a half?

     She looks in his eyes.

                               GIN

                     Sure.

     And as if he believed her...

                               MAC

                     My checkbook is in my safe.  You

                     wait here.

     His smile evaporates.  He is gone before she can say...

                               GIN

                     Okay.  I'll wait here.

     INT. CAR, SHINJUKU DISTRICT - NIGHT

     Mac driving in silence.  Gin stealing glances at him.  Suddenly and

     smoothly, he reaches down, and picks up...

                               GIN

                     That's my purse.

     He opens it.  One eye on the road, he begins to rummage...

                               MAC

                     Just want to see if I'm with the

                     person you say you are.  Can't be

                     too caref...

     She SNATCHES the bag away from him, he GRABS it back, the car

     SWERVES LEFT, and...

     ...CRASHES VIOLENTLY into a parked pure white Bentley.  Metal

     BUCKLES and TEARS, both ALARMS go OFF, a cacophony of horrific

     NOISE.

                               MAC (quietly)

                     Oh, dear.

     People come RUNNING, but our focus is drawn to the refined elderly

     COUPLE who were just returning to their precious Bentley.  Their

     WAILS and ANGUISH would be suitable if all their grandchildren had

     been crushed beneath Mac's wheels.

     Mac and Gin are OUT of the car.  As he exits, Mac has palmed a

     small BLADE, and in a quick unseen motion, RIPPED a jagged tear

     in his left trouser leg.  The old couple RUSH to Mac, SHRIEKING

     their rage and grief in Japanese, Gin is trying to calm them as

     bystanders gather, but Mac cuts through...

                               MAC (subtitled Japanese)

                     We'll go in there, and call

                     the police.

     And HOBBLES off toward the nearest building, a block-square

     30-story skyscraper bearing the name FUJITSU.  The couple, the

     crowd, all race after the limping Mac...

                               GIN

                     Are you all right?

     No answer, he looks dark enough to rain.  INTO the public lobby of

     the huge industrial complex.  Two night GUARDS come hurrying from

     their desk, as the small mob POURS in.  Mac in the lead, a

     commanding presence, tells the guards in a loud, clear voice...

                               MAC (subtitled Japanese)

                     I have damaged the car of these

                     kind people.  Please help them

                     call the police...

     One guard leads the hysterical couple toward a phone.  Mac pulls up

     his trouser leg, and Gin GASPS to see a bloody GASH.  Mac drops the

     trouser back over the wound.  Asks the remaining guard...

                               MAC (subtitled Japanese)

                     May I use a washroom, please.

     The guard nods absently, disoriented by the chaos.  Mac hands his

     billfold to Gin...

                               MAC

                     These are my papers, passport, car

                     registration.  If the police arri...

                               GIN

                     You're going to need stitches,

                     let me get you to a hospital.

     Soft words, genuine concern.  And his eyes flicker.  As if somehow

     seeing her for the first time.  A small spark, but she feels it.

     Softer still...

                               GIN

                     Really, this can all wait.

                     I'll handle it.

     The look holds.

                               MAC

                     That's actually.  Very sweet.

     His first real smile.  It was worth waiting for.

                               MAC (to a guard, subtitled Japanese)

                     Might you have a First Aid kit,

                     of some kind?

     INT. TOILET STALL

     We are inside an empty, closed, Japanese-style toilet stall.

     Porcelain foot rests.  A hole.  The door BURSTS OPEN, and...

     ...Mac enters FAST with the First Aid kit, locking the door,

     hitting the STOPWATCH on his wrist, which begins counting at

     ZERO.  He pulls UP his trouser leg, revealing the bloody gash,

     and simply...

     ...RIPS the entire wound OFF, the rubbery prosthetic wound DANGLES,

     dripping its phony blood.  Mac pulls gauze strips from the kit,

     SOAKS them in bogus gore, expertly WRAPS his leg, then FLUSHES the

     prosthetic DOWN the hole.

     He pulls off the FUJITSU VISITOR badge clipped to his lapel, and

     from a Ziploc bag slides a small sheet of plastic, which he PRESSES

     to the face of the badge, fitting perfectly, turning the badge

     into...

     ...an EMPLOYEE I.D., the name KAWAKUBO, M., the PHOTO of a surly

     Japanese male.  Quickly, Mac takes out the MATCH BOX from the hotel

     bar, and with a fine tweezers gently removes the MICROCHIP, placing

     it INSIDE the badge, activating it with a soft BEEP-BEEP.  He

     reaches now...

     ...behind his back, up UNDER his tux jacket, and RIPS FREE a

     tightly-compressed PACK of what seems white paper or cloth.  He

     SNAPS it loose, revealing it to be...

     ...a baggy CLEAN SUIT, not unlike hospital scrubs and falling to

     the floor...

     ...a white HOOD.  With opaque tinted VISOR.

     INT. SECURITY CORRIDOR

     Mac in his clean suit and opaque-visored hood at an elevator marked

     CLEARED PERSONNEL ONLY in English and Kanji (Japanese characters).

     He holds his badge to the SCANNER, the door PINGS and slides OPEN..

     INT. PREP ROOM ENTRANCE, 29TH FLOOR

     Mac emerging from his elevator at the entrance to an AIR-LOCK with

     sign CLEAN ROOM - CLASS 10.  Holds his badge to the SCANNER, the

     air-lock door lights FLASH froin red to yellow to green.  He

     enters...

     ...the PREP ROOM.  Recorded VOICES purr safety instructions in

     Japanese, while Mac stands, being bombarded by air shower, chemical

     sprayer, blinding UV light.  The next air-lock OPENS.  He enters...

     INT. CLEAN ROOM

     ...a long ASSEMBLY LINE, where ROBOT ARMS work on a stream of black

     SILICON WAFERS, which pass along a clear Lexan CONVEYOR BELT.  The

     wafers move through various airtight CHAMBERS, exposing them to

     multi-colored gasses, cyan, sodium yellow, magenta, etc., as part

     of the microchip manufacturing process.

     More than a dozen TECHNICIANS in their hooded clean suits watch

     over every phase of the work, attached to the walls by grounding

     wires and air hoses, which create a deafening NOISE.  Mac simply

     hooks himself up, and saunters straight THROUGH the area, toward

     the place where the conveyor belt with its newly-processed

     MICROCHIPS...

     ...DISAPPEARS through the wall.  Nearby, a HATCH is built into the

     same wall, and Mac calmly CLANKS it OPEN, squeezing through into...

     ...a dimly-lit MAINTENANCE BAY.  Panels of switches, wires, fuses,

     fans, air cleaners.  Maximum claustrophobia, as Mac CLANGS the

     hatch SHUT behind him, looking instantly to...

     ...an OVERHEAD HATCH with letters in Kanji and English, DANGER

     ARGON GAS.  Mac THROWS back his hood, YANKS out his mini oxygen

     pouch, fits the slender forked breathing tube into his nostrils,

     and slips on thick round infrared GOGGLES that make him look like a

     refugee from 12 MONKEYS.  No time to lose...

     ...up THROUGH the overhead hatch, closing it behind him as he

     enters...

     ...the conveyer TUBE, a horizontal Lexan cylinder three feet in

     diameter, filled with billowing red gas.  Mac stretches out on his

     belly, glancing up to where the clear conveyor belt, with its

     precious cargo of microchips, runs along just above his head in

     eerie red light.  He begins to...

     ...shimmy, crawl, squirm along the length of the tube.  Gas too

     thick to see the end.  He is agile as a commando, hauling ass, when

     suddenly...

     ...the floor beneath his tube FALLS AWAY, and he is crawling in

     space 29 stories above Tokyo, as his tube spans the distance

     between manufacturing and shipping structures.  He goes faster,

     HARDER...

     INT. MICROCHIP VAULT

     A black chamber.  We can scarcely make out the endless rows of

     shelving, the air purifying equipment, the conveyor belt entering

     through its air lock, as machinery folds each priceless microchip

     in foil wrappers, stacks them on shelves.  Through the gasket...

     ...Mac TUMBLES into view, swinging himself neatly DOWN to the

     floor, and in a single motion, he is already FLASHING a neon-green

     pen light along the shelves of microchips.  We see now the wrappers

     are different colors, with different Kanji characters, and Mac is

     definitely looking for something special, until...

     ...he's found it.  A single row, 35 chips, nothing special from

     here, but Mac...

     ...WHIPS out something coiled, SNAPS it to full length, revealing a

     strip of shiny black SATIN CLOTH.  Three feet long, little more

     than an inch wide.  Carefully, Mac lays the strip down directly

     OVER the row of microchips.  And when he lifts it UP again...

     ...the chips have ADHERED to the underside of the cloth.  In one

     deft SNAP of his wrist, he COILS the cloth again, like a yo-yo.

     Turns to leave, and...

     Oh, yeh.

     Tosses a small SACK of something where the chips used to be.  TIM'S

     CASCADE BRAND POTATO CHIPS.  SEA SALT AND VINEGAR FLAVOR.

     INT. CLEAN ROOM

     Mac exiting from the maintenance hatch back into the Clean Room.

     No one sees, no one cares.  Hooking up once again, he ambles toward

     a door clearly marked EXIT ONLY TO EMPLOYEE LOUNGE - RETURN ONLY

     THROUGH SECURITY AREA.

     By the door is an employee notice tacked to the wall.  He pretends

     to scan it.  A stack of flyers.  He takes one.  Exiting into...

     INT. EMPLOYEE LOUNGE

     Past a changing area, vending machines, guys bullshitting.  Mac

     just strolling along, reading his flyer, as...

     A hand.  Touches his shoulder

                               VOICE (subtitled Japanese)

                     Excuse me.

     Mac turns, stares through his opaque VISOR at a well-built SECURITY

     OFFICER.  Dead straight eyes.

                               OFFICER (subtitled Japanese)

                     The company picnic.  Saturday or

                     Sunday?

     His eyes cut to the flyer Mac is 'reading'.  Mac hands it to him,

     and without a trace of Scottish accent...

                               MAC (subtitled Japanese)

                     Better eat first.

     INT. GUEST LOBBY

     Gin is up to her ears in grief.  There are no less than five COPS

     grilling her, taking notes, while the old couple has their second

     wind and are SHRIEKING in top form.  The bystander gallery has

     grown to maybe three dozen, and they're all getting their word in.

     As Gin struggles to cope...

     ...she keeps looking at the clock.  Darting glances toward the

     corridor.  She is freaking out.

     Finally.  She can't stand it.  Hands Mac's billfold to one of the

     cops, pushes her way through the mob, and...

     ...TAKES OFF down the corridor, a security guard in belated

     pursuit, we go...

     ...WITH her DOWN the hallway, WHEEL around a corner, flat-out

     SPRINTING, SKIDS to a stop at the right doorway and BURSTS INTO...

     INT. MEN'S ROOM

     An empty washroom.  She listens.  Nothing.

                               GIN

                     Mr. MacDougal?  Sir?

     No sound.  Uh-oh.

                               GIN

                     Uh.  Mr. Ma...

                               MAC (O.S., from the stall)

                     Just 'Mac'.  And whatever became

                     of a gentleman's privacy?

     The security guard BARGES IN.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     My God, more females?

     The guard starts railing at Gin a mile a minute.  She calmly takes

     a WAD of bills from her purse.  Hands them to the guy...

                               GIN (subtitled Japanese)

                     Stand outside.  That door.  Two

                     minutes...

     He does.  Alone again.

                               GIN

                     I was worried, it's been twenty...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Eighteen, actually.  The leg is

                     fine, but I got sort of...woozy.

                               GIN

                     Woozy.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Lost my stomach once or twice.

     CUT INSIDE the stall.  He is just re-taping the folded clean suit

     and hood to the small of his back.

                               MAC

                     I'm an old man.  You probably

                     noticed.

     Awkward silence.  He smiles at that, much amused.  Slips on his

     jacket.

                               MAC

                     You should see me without

                     my teeth.

     UNLOCKS the door.  Remembers...

                               MAC

                     Ah.  Mustn't forget to zip up.

     That's not what he forgot.  He pulls OUT the coiled black satin

     cloth strip, SNAPS it free, microchips snug to the underside.  And

     fits it neatly...

     ...DOWN his trouser leg.  The perfect tuxedo stripe.

     OUT the door.  To meet her gaze.

                               MAC

                     Odd place, this.

     He goes to her.  Offers his arm.

                               MAC

                     What do you suppose they make

                     here?  Video recorders?

     She takes it, wrapping both hers through.

                               GIN

                     Microchips, I think, for computers.

     He opens the door.  Ushers her through...

                               MAC

                     Bad investment.  The best ones

                     are here today...

     Follows her out...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Gone tomor...

     Closed door.  Quiet.

     INT. CAB, NIHONBASHI DISTRICT - NIGHT

     They sit together in the rear of the taxi, as it makes its way

     through late night traffic.  She is looking around.

                               GIN

                     This isn't the way to my sel...

                               MAC (quietly)

                     I've changed my mind.

     Looking straight ahead.  Contemplative.  She stares at his

     profile...

                               GIN

                     Mind telling me why?

                               MAC

                     You can't get it for me at 2.5,

                     can you?

                               GIN

                     Well, we can tr...

                               MAC

                     You were setting me up.  The correct

                     price is 2.8.  You conspire with the

                     seller to start at 4.6, so I'll be

                     grateful when you 'bargain' him down

                     to three.  Close enough to fool some

                     people.  unfortunately...

     He sighs.  Never looks at her.

                               MAC

                     I'm old.  I know what everything

                     is worth.

     She keeps staring.

                               GIN

                     So where are we g...

                               MAC

                     I am going to the airport.  You

                     are going on to the rest of your

                     life.  Which...

     He thinks.  Admits...

                               MAC

                     ...should be interesting.

     Her turn to think.

                               GIN

                     You forgot your lugg...

                               MAC

                     The hotels deal with that.  The

                     things I need are always waiting

                     at the next one.

                               (afterthought)

                     I don't carry.  Baggage.

     Little twist on that.

                               GIN

                     Sensible.  And you're off to...?

                               MAC

                     Oh, that's highly personal.

     He still stares straight ahead.  The taxi pulls onto a freeway.

     Toward Narita Airport.  Time running out.  And in her dearest, most

     vulnerable, voice...

                               GIN

                     I did so hope to impress you.

     She puts the fingertips of her left hand.  On his chest.  A

     silence.  No reaction.

                               GIN (hopeful)

                     I'm still hoping...

     And he smiles.  Turns to her eyes.

                               MAC

                     Young lady.  I am old enough to

                     be your grandfather.

     She shakes her head.  Uh-uh.

                               GIN (soft)

                     My father.

     Leans her mouth in for the kill.

                               GIN (whisper)

                     That's part of the rush.

     And softly.  Fits her mouth to his.  The green eyes close, as

     she tastes him.  Nothing predatory in this kiss.  It is tender,

     exquisite.  A kiss of deep longing.  Of true love.

     His arms slip around her.  And in less than five seconds...

                               TAXI DRIVER (O.S., racist accent)

                     Still on fo' airport?

     Nobody.  Says.  Nothin'.

     INT. MAC'S SUITE - LATE NIGHT

     A small bottle.  An ornate label.  Chateau d'Yquem '67.  Gin lifts

     it from the table, studies the label.  She wears only a man's

     oversized t-shirt.  Our rotating ANGLE reveals the empty bed,

     tangled sheets.  Gin looks pretty rumpled herself.

     She lifts the bottle, two glasses, a plateful of chocolates and

     strawberries, and goes to the sliding glass door overlooking...

     ...the TERRACE.  Mac sits on a futon at the balcony railing,

     overlooking downtown Tokyo.  He wears a thin Japanese robe called

     a yukata, and is wrapped in half of a huge down COVERLET from the

     bed.  The other half obviously waiting for...

                               GIN

                     Here.  A reward.

     She curls down into the billowing coverlet, just against his body.

     Sets her things beside him.

                               MAC

                     A reward for what?

                               GIN

                     For not being old.  After all.

     It is a lovely smile.  He studies it for a beat.

                               MAC

                     You mean.  Not as old as I look.

     She traces her finger along his cheek.

                               GIN (a whisper)

                     Yeh.

     And kisses him.  It takes awhile.  She seems to enjoy it.  With

     him, it's harder to tell.  When she pulls back...

     ...he picks up a chocolate.  Tears it in half.  Offers her the

     larger piece.

                               GIN

                     Do I deserve a reward?

     No answer.  He puts the chocolate into her mouth.  With great

     tenderness, he traces the line of her lower lip.  As she swallows.

                               GIN

                     It's so hard to find good casual

                     sex, anymore.  I'm probably out

                     of practice.

     But he just looks at her.

                               MAC

                     What's hard to find.  Is someone

                     you truly want to be with.

     And leans closer.  Just above a whisper...

                               MAC

                     Even for awhile.

     He kisses her.  Beautiful and deep, the way he does it.  And

     when he pulls back, she is staring at him.  As if at a loss for

     something to say.

                               GIN

                     It's lucky we stopped by my room,

                     for the wine.

     She swallows.  Because his gaze is unrelenting. As if not

     forgetting that she's changed the subject.

                               GIN

                     Otherwise, we'd never have found

                     my bag was stolen.  Until tomorrow.

                               MAC

                     Would that make it more stolen?

     She smiles.  His face looks kind now, not formidable at all.  Maybe

     she's wondering if she actually likes him.

                               GIN

                     They even got my prescriptions.

                               MAC

                     Something you need? There are

                     all-night chemists...

     He does look concerned.  And therefore sweet.  She kisses his nose.

                               GIN

                     I take Prilosec.  For stomach

                     acid.  And an inhaler.  For asthma.

     She gets her old smile.  The soft, wicked tease.

                               GIN

                     But since I didn't have to work

                     all that hard tonight...

     He stares at her.  Cocks a finger, like a gun, right between her

     eyes.  Pantomimes pulling the trigger.

                               GIN (softly)

                     Ouch.  I had that coming.

     She pivots, and snuggles her back comfortably into his chest.  He

     wraps strong arms around her.  Pulling her close.

                               GIN

                     Why would someone steal 

my

 luggage?

                     Every guest 

in

 this place must

                     have more than a wannabe art dealer.

                               MAC

                     Ah.  Maybe the thief thought you

                     had something valuable in there.

     Something in the tone.

                               GIN

                     Such as...

                               MAC

                     Well.  Wannabe dealers make

                     excellent fences.

     A flicker.  In her eyes.  And she cuddles back.  As if enjoying the

     humor.

                               GIN

                     He thought I had a stolen

                     painting.  In my bag.

                               MAC

                     I'm joking, of course.

     Kisses the top of her head.

                               MAC

                     The Vermeer wouldn't fit.

     Her eyes widen.  Just a little.

                               GIN

                     Excuse me?

                               MAC

                     Why, did you do something wrong?

     She turns all the way around.  Their faces are inches apart.  Each

     reading the other's eyes.

                               GIN

                     You said.  Vermeer.

                               MAC

                     The most famous painting stolen

                     this week.

     His turn.  To kiss her nose.

                               MAC

                     If you don't keep up on your

                     craft.  You'll miss all the jokes.

     And lowers her gently onto her back.  Still staring in her eyes, he

     winds her legs around him.  Her mouth parts, but...

     ...he fills it with his own.

     This conversation.  Is over.

     INT. MAC'S SUITE - MORNING

     VIEW of the empty terrace, the rumpled, twisted coverlet.  Maybe

     they spent all night.  HEAR the shower running full blast in a

     distant bathroom.  PULL BACK to see...

     Gin, hair wet, wrapped in a plush hotel robe, rapidly and expertly

     going through dresser, night stand, closet, sofa cushions, every

     goddam thing in the room.  She comes to...

     ...Mac's tux.  The jacket, rifles the pockets, pats the lining.

     The pants now...

     ...something peculiar. The right leg has no stripe. Touches the

     cloth.  Slightly sticky where the stripe should be.  Odd.

     ANGLE...the bathroom.  Shower running full BLAST.  But there's no

     one in it.

     ANGLE...a storage closet.  Mac crouching in the smallspace.  We

     see the travel bag.  The luggage tag, VIRGINIA ROMAY, a Darien,

     Connecticut address.  The embossed initials VR.  But there is

     something else in Mac's hand...

     ...a prescription bottle.  Prilosec.  And a name, GINGER BAKER.

     Chicago address.  Mac puts the pills in the pocket of his robe...

     ...exits the closet.  Locks the door.

     ANGLE...Mac ambling into the bedroom, toweling his hair with one

     hand.  Holding his billfold in the other.  Gin is starting a room

     service breakfast.  Eggs, sausage, Belgian waffles.  The girl can

     eat.

                               MAC

                     I'm so glad I didn't leave Tokyo.

     She looks up.  Trademark dry grin...

                               GIN

                     I love a guy who knows how to

                     sweet talk.

     He stands over her.  Smiling.  What he meant was...

                               MAC

                     There was a call.  While you

                     were sleeping.

     A call.

                               MAC

                     An art dealer I know.  He has a

                     Monet.  Minor, but it 

is

 Giverny.

                     He'll let me have it for 5.3 million.

     She stares at him.

                               GIN (cautiously)

                     We can maybe beat that.

                               MAC (pulling plastic from his billfold)

                     I agree.  This is a bank debit card.

                     It gives the bearer access to an

                     account containing 4.6 and change.

                     I dislike round numbers.

     And hand. the card to her.  As her eyes move over it...

                               MAC

                     I'd like you to go down there,

                     and pick up the painting.  If

                     that's all right.

     Without looking up...

                               GIN

                     Me.

                               MAC

                     If I'm there, he'll haggle.  You

                     just hand him the debit card, with

                     that...luminous smile.  And say,

                     take it or leave it.

     Now her eyes come up.  She says nothing.  Hesitant.

                               MAC

                     Oh, dear.  I thought you so

                     wanted to make a good impression.

                               GIN

                     Thought I already did th...

                               MAC

                     And along with making an 

excellent

                     impression.  You will also make 2

                     percent of the purchase price.

     She blinks.

                               MAC

                     That's $92,000.  And change..

                     For two hours work.

     The look holds.  He goes to the desk.  Lifts a cellular phone.

     TOSSES it to her.

                               MAC

                     Any problems.  Just give me

                     a ring.

                               GIN

                     Stolen painting is it?

                               MAC

                     Of course not.

     And on his way out the door...

                               MAC

                     If it was.  I wouldn't pay more

                     than three.

     EXT. WHARF, YOKOHAMA - DAY

     Gin climbing out of a taxi at a scruffy section of Yokohama's Bund.

     Sleazy shops, pachinko parlors, hostess bars, sidewalk noodle

     counters, all built along a tall rickety PIER nearly thirty feet

     above the pounding surf.  The harbor is gigantic.  Every type and

     size of vessel imaginable.

     Gin carries a long neoprene-covered tube with watertight seals and

     a lightweight bright orange foam cover.  She looks at her slip of

     paper.  Then across at the place...KENDO SOUVENIRS, a schlock

     kickback parlor, with a tourist bus parked out front.

     This can't be right.  Pulls out the cellular phone.  Dials.

                               MAC'S RECORDED VOICE (O.S.)

                     You have reached the voice-mail

                     of AMD Investments.  And, yes,

                     you 

are

 at the right place.

     Fucking great.

                               GIN (into phone, pissed)

                     I like men with a sense of humor.

                     This does 

not

 qualify.

     SNAPS the phone shut.  Checks the slip again.  Walks firmly across

     the street, through the mobs of tourists, and into...

     INT. KENDO SOUVENIRS - DAY

     The place is huge, ramshackle, loaded with every piece of tourist

     crap imaginable.  The only paintings on display are renderings of

     big cats on black velvet.  She winds her way through, to a counter

     at the back.  One guy there...

                               GIN (subtitled Japanese)

                     May I please speak with Mr. Okati.

                               OKATI

                     You doin' it.

     The best we can say for the pudgy, balding fellow in the Hawaiian

     shirt and spectacularly baggy trousers, is that he does not seem to

     be the guy who is selling you a Monet.  Even a minor one.

                               GIN

                     I think there's some mista...

                              OKATI

                     You from Mac?

     She stops.  Jesus.  The guy COUGHS horribly.

                               GIN

                     I'm from Mac.

                               OKATI

                     Lemme see card.

     She hesitates.

                               OKATI

                     Four million, six hundred

                     thirteen thousand, five hundred?

     Wow.  He slaps his hand on the table.  Lay it down, toots.

                               GIN

                     You first.

     He shrugs.  Lifts straight up, from beneath the counter...

     ...a brown paper-wrapped rectangle.  Not much larger than two feet

     square.  She can't even believe she's here, doing this.  Gestures

     to him.  Open it up!

     He obliges, COUGHING grossly all the while.  Unwrapped, the

     painting 

does

 look like a Monet.  From here.  She stares at it.

                               GIN

                     Now bring me the real one.

     He doesn't blink.

                               OKATI

                     This as real as it gets, lady.

     And from within her pocket.  The cellular RINGS.  She takes it

     out.  Puts it to her ear.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     You got it?

                               GIN (into phone)

                     Is this an audition, a joke, or

                     a rip-off?  I'm staring at an

                     obvious forgery, here.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Turn it over.

     This gives her pause.  Then, cradling the phone against her

     shoulder, she does as she's told.  To see...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Is there an envelope?  Taped to

                     the back?  In a Ziploc bag?

     Sure is.

                               GIN (into phone)

                     Uh-huh.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Detach the bag.  Read what's

                     in it.  Aloud.

     She does.  Carefully unfolding several sheets of paper, maps...

                               GIN (reading into phone)

                     Shikoku Naru, a freighter, it

                     says, Yokohama to Jakarta...dates,

                     statistics...specs on some kind of

                     machine, diag...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Papers 

back

 in the envelope,

                     envelope 

back

 in the Ziploc, very

                     quickly, without seeming to hurry...

     Her eyes are flickering questions, but she does as she's told,

     cradling the phone with her shoulder.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Now take the debit card 

from

 your

                     purse, slipping the Ziploc 

into

 the

                     purse 

as

 you do it, 

shielding

 the move

                     from everyone in the room but Okati.

     And she does.  More deftly than we could ever have imagined.  Like

     a pro.

                               MAC (O.S., quietly)

                     Give him the card.

     A beat.

                               GIN (into phone)

                     Mac, the painting's a forg...

                               MAC (O.S., even quieter)

                     This is a test.  Of whether you'll

                     still be alive four minutes from

                     now.  Do you hear me?

     Her face freezes.  In a pleasant smile.

                               GIN (into phone)

                     Yes, Mac, I do.

                               MAC (0.5.)

                     Now.  Hand him the card, and tell

                     him in Japanese to pretend he is

                     checking it by phone.  Tell him to

                     take awhile, as if he's on hold.

     She turns the sweet plastic smile to Okati.  Hands him the card...

                               GIN (subtitled Japanese)

                     Mac says, pretend you're checking

                     this by phone, and take your ti...

                               OKATI (subtitled Japanese)

                     ...like I'm on hold, sure.

     And suddenly, his eyes are keen and quick, and he is no longer some

     schmuck in baggy pants.  He takes the card, stares at it comically,

     picks up the phone.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     While he's checking, look around

                     the room casually, as if searching

                     for the cheesy handbags...

     She begins to.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     All the while laughing, as if you

                     are chatting with someone you

                     actually 

like

.

                               GIN (into phone)

                     I'm not that good.

     But she is.  And she laughs, as she strolls over to the cheesy

     handbags.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     As you're looking around, do you

                     notice any m...

                               GIN (into phone)

                     Three guys, two together, one

                     alone.  Cheap suits, not looking

                     at me in a cop-casual way.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Call out cheerily to Okati, in

                     English, 'Where's the toilet?'

                               GIN (into phone)

                     Can I say, 'little girl's room'?

     A beat.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Wing it.

                               GIN (calls out, cheerily)

                     WHERE'S THE CRAPPER?

     Okati, absorbed by his make-believe phone call, points around the

     back.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Get going.  Now.

                               GIN (into phone, as she saunters)

                     Mac, the painting isn't...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     You've got what we bought, are

                     you out of their sight?

     She turns the corner.  Filthy corridor.  Restrooms at opposite

     ends.

                               MAC (O.S.)

Run

 into the 

men's

 toilet.

                     I know you know how.

     A beat of uncertainty.  She looks both ways.

                               MAC (O.S., ominous)

                     Are you 

running

?

     And she DOES.  SPRINTING down the garbage-strewn hallway, throws

     OPEN the men's room door, BURSTING IN on...

     ...a wispy OLD GUY taking a leak through a HOLE in the floor.

                               GIN (subtitled Japanese)

                     GET THE FUCK OUT OF HERE!

     The panicked little man STARTLES.  Bolts OUT the door.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Jump.

     Jump?  HEAR now, from the corridor, footfalls POUNDING.  She looks

     down through the piss hole.  The surf ROILS thirty feet below.

                               GIN (into phone)

                     It's too small.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     The 

window

, twit!

     Oh.  She hops OVER the disgusting hole, boosts herself UP to the

     small window, footfalls racing CLOSER, HOISTS herself HALFWAY

     through, DROPPING the phone a scary 30 feet to the surf below, as

     behind her, the door...

     ...SLAMS OPEN and she FLIES OUT the window...

                               GIN

                     SHIIIIIIIIIIT...

     WITH her in SLO-MO, kicking and flailing and grasping her shoulder

     bag, and she...

     HITS the ocean like a ton of bricks.  Disappears.  Comes up,

     sputtering in the swirling water, as from out of the shadows of

     the pilings...

     ...an engine ROARS to life, the BLUR of a custom JETSKI, Mac

     reaching to scoop the startled girl OUT of the water, and they...

     ...BLAST OFF, as bullets RAIN helplessly after them.  The AGENTS

     shouting into their cellulars, racing in frustration down the pier,

     which rapidly vanishes behind us, as...

     ...Gin hangs onto Mac for dear life.  This baby is REALLY hauling.

     He wears an orange waterproof slicker with matching trousers.

     Shouts back, against the noise...

                               MAC

                     ARE YOU PISSED OFF?

     She thinks.  Admits, shouting in his ear...

                               GIN

                     ACTUALLY.  IT'S INCREDIBLY COOL!

     He is heading into deep water, a major shipping channel, points to

     one side, and she sees...

     ...a huge HARBOR PATROL vessel FIRE UP in near distance.  The chase

     is ON.  They speed toward the WAKE of a luxury liner, and as she

     realizes...

                               GIN

                     OH NOOOOOO...

     They SLAM INTO the wake HEAD ON, and are AIRBORNE for an amazing

     distance, JOLTING back to the surface, RACING toward...

     ...two gigantic FREIGHTERS which approach each other from opposite

     directions.  The Harbor Patrol in hot pursuit, BLASTING its HORN...

                               GIN

                     WE'RE GONNA DIE, AREN'T WE?

                               MAC

                     JUST AS SOON AS I'M READY!

     As we near the outbound freighter, Mac CUTS his speed.  Now the

     Harbor Patrol is really gaining.

                               GIN

                     FASTER, NOT SLOWER, YOU 

TWIT

!!

                               MAC

                     HAVE TO GIVE THEM A SPORTING

                     CHANCE...

     Cruising STRAIGHT TOWARD the part side of the outbound freighter,

     as the inbound freighter begins to pass it on the far side...

                               MAC

                     ...SOMETHING WE SCOTS LEARNED

                     FROM THE BRITS!

     As the Harbor Patrol is nearly ON them, Mac VEERS suddenly AROUND

     the stern of the outbound freighter, the Harbor patrol WHEELING

     madly to pursue, only to find we are both CAREENING straight AT...

     ...the starboard side of the inbound freighter, Mac CUTS his wheel

     in an adroit nearly right-angle SWERVE, and hears the SCREAMS as

     the Harbor patrol...

     PLOWS INTO the freighter!  Wasting no time, he ACCELERATES into

     maximum BURN, STREAKING toward the immensely crowded harbor and its

     thousand vessels.  Gin can't help but look back at the impressive

     crash site, mouthing a silent WOW.

     Nearing the harbor, Mac CUTS speed completely, drifting between two

     huge ships and...

     ...vanishing from sight.

     EXT. SMALL CHANNEL - DAY

     The tiny Jetski cruises in a quiet channel, crowded with vessels of

     all sizes, tugs, fishing boats, pleasure craft, junks, sampans, all

     larger than we are.  Gin clings close to Mac, although it is no

     necessary.  More like romantic.  She is still flushed with

     the rush.

                               GIN

                     I guess you're gonna explain

                     all this, huh?

     But he says nothing.  Pulls out a water-tight duffle.  Hands it

     back to her, without looking.

                               MAC

                     Dry clothes, you'll need them.

                     In five minutes.

     She takes the bag, confused.

                               GIN

                     I'm supposed to change?  

Here

??

                               MAC

                     I won't look.  Gentleman's word

                     of hon...

                               GIN

                     There are a million 

sailors

!

                               MAC

                     I've seen you naked.  Give the

                     boys a thrill.

     He means it.

                               MAC

                     You probably won't be dating

                     any of them, so what the hell.

     Gin looks around as they float through the maze of watercraft.  No

     one seems to be paying much attention.  What the hell.  She unzips

     the bag, pulling out...

                               GIN (astonished)

                     These...these are mine!

     He never looks around.

                               MAC

                     Found 'em in your room.  Perhaps

                     the thief wasn't your size.

     She stares at the back of his head.  wondering.  He is stripping

     off his slickers.  A neatly-tailored SUIT beneath.

                               MAC

                     We have a business appointment.

                     In four minutes.

     Okay.  She pulls her dress off OVER her head.

                               GIN

                     Business, huh?

     She ignores some nearby WHISTLES and SHOUTS.  Begins drying herself

     with a fluffy towel from the bag.

                               MAC (never turns)

                     Time has come to tell you.  What

                     business.  I'm actually in.

     Uh-oh.  Paydirt.

                               GIN

                     Uh.  Am I gonna like th...

                               MAC (quietly)

                     I'm a thief.

     She can scarcely 

believe

 he's admitting this.

                               MAC

                     And now that I've told you.

                     I'll have to kill you.

     He chuckles a Scottish chuckle.  Cold and warm, at once.

                               MAC

                     Or...

     She slips the dry dress OVER her head.

                               MAC

                     ...you can spend the most

                     interesting three weeks of

                     your life.  Training.

                               GIN

                     Training for wha...

                               MAC

                     ...followed by the most exciting

night

 of your life.  After which,

                     you can walk away with 20 

million

untraceable

 dollars...

     She blinks.  He 

means

 this.

                               MAC

                     ...which will come in handy.

                     Things being what they are.

     He shrugs.

                               MAC

                     From now on.  You can valet park.

     She begins taking off her wet underwear, underneath the dress.  We

     suspect unseen hordes crestfallen at her modesty.

                               GIN

                     And if I refuse?

                               MAC (very quietly)

                     Don't.  Please.

                               GIN

                     I mean, you won't 

really

 kill

                     me, I'm far too adorable.

     He looks around at her.  As if deciding on that.

                               MAC

                     Last night, at Fujitsu, I did

                     some business.  While you thought

                     I was in the toilet.

     Jesus.

                               GIN

                     What could you possibly steal

                     in 18 min...

                               MAC

                     Thirty-five 

super

-microchips.

                     Each worth one million dollars.

                     And change.

     Staring dead at her eyes.

                               GIN

                     You hate round num...

                               MAC

                     I stole your suitcase when I

                     left you at the bar.  I have

                     since sent it on to the States,

                     with 

three

 chips, well hidden.

     Are you following?

                               MAC

                     Since you aren't there to claim

                     it, the bag will sit at Customs.

                     Safe.  Unless...

     No smile.  No smile at all.

                               MAC

                     They receive.  An anonymous.  Tip.

     Holy.  Fucking.  Christ.

                               GIN

                     That's entrapment.

                               MAC

                     No, entrapment is what cops do

                     to robbers.

     We can feel her heart pounding from here.

                               MAC

                     Blackmail.  Is what robbers

                     do to schmucks.

     And leans.  To kiss her mouth.

                               MAC (softly)

                     Even adorable ones.

     They have glided up beside the gangway of a gigantic FREIGHTER.  It

     is at water level, the steps they use for their tender.  He points

     up to the name...

                               MAC

                     Pop quiz.

     SHIKOKU MARU.  She nods, slowly.  Pulls the Ziploc bag from her

     purse.  Hands it over.  He removes the sheets of paper.  Begins to

     peruse them...

                               MAC

                     Admit it's a rush.  The best day

                     of your heretofore drab life.

                               GIN

                     Fuck you.

     He glances up.

                               GIN

                     ...accompanied by related foreplay.

     And gives him the smile. What a gal.

     He offers his hand.  She rises, hops lightly to the steps of the

     gangway in her bare feet.  He pulls dry shoes from the duffle.  And

     as she slips them on...

     ...he FLIPS a switch, and the Jetski begins to FILL with water, Mac

     stepping to the gangway beside her.  They watch...

     ...the Jetski rapidly SINK out of sight.

     No evidence.  A thorough guy.

     INT. FREIGHTER HOLD - DAY

     Mac and Gin stand inside a gigantic CARGO BAY, watching massive

     CONTAINERS being loaded by crane from a dock, through the gaping

     HATCH.  The chamber is a vaulted cathedral of steel, painted

     hospital green, and Mac's eye moves over all of it, seeming to

     inspect every plate, every pan head rivet.

                               VOICE (O.S., British cheer)

                     Hullo, there!

     They turn to see a round little man with watering eyes and a very

     wide necktie, skipping-down the iron steps.  Bursting with a

     salesman's bonhomie, he extends a plump hand...

                               MAN

                     Nickerson Carlsby, Mr...

                     MacDuff, yes?

                               MAC

                     Banquo MacDuff.  This is my

                     associate-fiancee, Ms. Duncan.

     The little man pauses.  A tic in the well-oiled smile...

                               CARLSBY

                     That is...fiancee 

and

 assoc...

                               GIN (cheery herself)

                     I'm a hyphenate.

     Ah.  Like that makes complete sense.  Fingers the gardenia in his

     lapel...

                               CARLSBY

                     Well, it's a pleasure, in this

                     alien place, to do business with

                     a countryman.

                               MAC

                     I'm a Scot.  It's a different

                     country.  Culturally and historically.

     I see.

                               CARLSBY (looking around)

                     Well.  They've brought you to

                     quite the wrong place, I see.

                               MAC (looking around)

                     Thank God.

     ANGLE...Carlsby leads the way along a narrow catwalk, which ends at

     a steel door.  He presses his thumb to the I.D. panel, and speaks

     into the voice box...

                               CARLSBY (confidential code-voice)

                     In Penny Lane, the barber shaves

                     another customer...

     The door CLANGS open.  They go through it, as a gangway leads

     toward an open five-foot-thick VAULT DOOR, where two ARMED GUARDS

     rise from their seats.  Carlsby ignores them as if they were

     furniture.  THUMPS the door...

                               CARLSBY

                     Five feet thick with hidden rein-

                     forcements, no way to drill through!

                               GIN (authoritative)

                     Impressive.

                               CARLSBY

                     Only the tip of our security

                     iceberg.  See these two Brinks

                     locks...?

     They do.

                               CARLSBY

                     The Captain keeps one key.  The

                     other is continually forwarded:

                     to the Chief of Security at next

                     port.  There is no way to enter

                     during voyage.

                               GIN

                     I like this.

     Carisby glances to Mac.  He is stone.

                               CARLSBY

                     The best armed guard, rotated every

                     six hours.  A redundancy, of course,

                     but we would rather be safe three

                     times over than merely two.

                               GIN

                     Sound mathematics.

                               MAC (very quiet)

                     What if there's a fire?  In the

                     chamber.

     Ah.  Carlsby leads them through the open door, into...

     ...the maximum-security HOLD.  Primo.  The steel coated with sleek,

     matte, black all-grip paint.  Tubby points up...

                               CARLSBY

                     Sprinklers.  New design.  Incredible

                     power.  The entire chamber is water-

                     proof, fireproof, airtight.  If the

                     ship 

sinks

, God forfend, your cargo

                     is secure for salvage.

     No reaction.  Mac does 

not

 look convinced.

                               CARLSBY

                     And your cargo is...?

                               MAC

                     Wine.

     Wine.

                               MAC

                     The bloody Japs bought up half

                     the premium clarets in the universe.

                     You may have heard.

     Actually.  He has.

                               MAC

                     I'm in charge of shipping some

                     14,000 bottles, most quite rare,

                     to a number of premium hotels in

                     Hong Kong, Bangkok, Singapore,

                     Phuket, and Penang.

     Carlsby gets the romance of it all.

                               MAC

                     All of which are destinations on

                     your October voyage.  Five months

                     from now.  However...

     And turns to the man.  With laser, disapproving eyes.

                               MAC

                     Wine.  Doesn't prefer.  To be

                     jostled.

     The man beams.  Gestures to a series of PLATFORMS, each SWAYING at

     different heights, in different directions.

                               CARLSBY

                     Our 'delicate treasure' platforms,

                     suspended on gimbals.  Your cargo

                     remains unruffled by roiling seas.

                     Then, on arrival, is plucked...

     Pointing once more...

                               CARLSBY

                     By that forklift, and gently

                     deposited on dock through the

                     cargo hatch...

     ...a huge circular hatch cut into the hull.  Mac's eyes stare

     blankly at it.  A long beat.  He pronounces it all...

                               MAC

                     Adequate.  I suppose.

     And then turns once more.

                               MAC

                     Did we see...a bathing pool.

                     On deck?

                               CARLSBY

                     Oh, yes, sir.  The Shikoku Maru

                     carries sixteen luxury suite pas-

                     senger cabins.  The finest cuisine.

                     For valued clients who prefer to

                     cruise in privacy.

     Mac.  Thinks this over.

                               MAC

                     Mildly.  Interesting.

     INT. PASSENGER DECK - DAY

     Carlsby ushering the couple along a plushly-appointed hallway.  A

     secret oasis of refinement in the heart of the massive freighter.

     He opens a burnished door, into...

     ...an elegant SUITE.  Cherrywood panels, spacious windows with

     views of the harbor.  The finest furnishings.  It is breathtaking.

     Even...

                               MAC

                     Adequate.  I suppose.

                               GIN

                     But dearest, in five months,

                     we'll be in Cape Town.

     Mac pulls from his pocket the folded sheets that had once been

     taped to the back of Okati's Monet.  Peruses them casually.

                               MAC

                     Anything sooner?  That goes

                     perhaps from...say, Sri Lanka?

                     To Jakarta.

     And looks up.  To a man dumbstruck.  By coincidence.

                               CARLSBY

                     Why, yes.  In three weeks.

     INT. CESSNA - DAY

     Looking DOWN on California's San Joaquin Valley from 12,000 feet,

     as air RUSHES past our open door.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     You seem depressed.

     PULL BACK to see them both in jumping suits.  He's checking her

     gear.  She's eyeing the expansive grid of fields below.

                               GIN

                     At your insistence, I'm leaping

                     to my death, and I don't know 

why

!

     He clips a tether from his harness to hers.

                               MAC

                     Because.  You're a greedy girl.

                               GIN

                     I'm not jumping until you 

talk

                     about this, it's been two 

days

!

     She folds her arms across her chest.  Rebellious.  He smiles at her

     tenderly.  Nods, okay.

                               GIN

                     Why are we going in three 

weeks

,

                     if the wine is on a 

different

                     route months lat...

                               MAC

                     There 

is

 no wine.  That just bought

                     us a look at their security.

     She stares at him.

                               GIN

                     I knew that.

                               MAC

                     What 

we

 want is on the boat in

                     three weeks.  Now can we jump?

                               GIN

                     The machine in those diagrams.  on

                     the back of the painting.

     Maybe.  He's still smiling.

                               GIN

                     What does it do, make gold?

                               MAC

                     We're nearing the targ...

                               GIN

                     Why won't you trust me?

                               MAC

                     How do I know who you are, hmmn?

     Stares in her eyes.

                               MAC

                     For all I know, your name isn't

                     Virginia Romay.  Maybe you're

                     a cop.

     She stares back.  Dead straight.

                               GIN

                     Why would a cop do all th...

                               MAC (softly)

                     Entrapment, remember? What cops

                     do to robbers.

                               GIN (just as softly)

                     Oh.  That.

     His smile is light, affectionate.  Gently, he backs her to the edge

     of the doorway...

                               MAC

                     One...two...

     She THROWS her arms around his neck.  Holds him close.

                               GIN

                     Mac, I'm afraid.

     Vulnerable and touchingly real.  His arms slide around her.

                               GIN

                     Of you.

                               MAC (a murmur)

                     Smart girl.

     And JUMPS, Gin SHRIEKING in his arms, as we...

     FOLLOW them, TUMBLING in FREE FALL, until he releases her, and bot

     EXTEND their arms and legs, as if flying, as if gliding face down,

     her shriek CONTINUING.  He floats at the end of their tether, a few

     feet above her.  And at last...

     ...her SCREAMING STOPS.  We see the pure adrenaline rush.  Shouts

     back...

                               GIN

                     NEXT TIME, I'M ON TOP!

     EXT. HILLTOP, MARIN COUNTY - DAY

     Woods, rolling hills, a dirt path.  Mac stands by a sign at a

     crossroads, names, arrows, STINSON BEACH, BOLINAS, MT. TAMALPAIS,

     MILL VALLEY.  There is a phone booth nearby.  He holds a stopwatch,

     looking down the path, as...

     ...Gin runs into view, steady stride, breathing hard, sheened with

     sweat.  Approaching him, she slows to a stop.  Hands on her knees,

     catching her wind. He CLICKS the watch.

                               MAC

                     Consistent.  And rather impressive.

     She sends a nasty smile, thanks a bunch.  But maybe she likes the

     compliment, after all.

     EXT. MAC'S CABIN, BOLINAS - NIGHT

     Rustic cabin in moonlight.  Ringed by woods.  Middle of nowhere,

     which is where Mac likes it.  As we approach the lit window, we

     hear two oddly-matched sounds.  splashing water.  And the HISS of a

     violent POWER TOOL.  We MOVE THROUGH the window, into...

     INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

     Two figures stand in the shower, spray SOAKING their shorts and

     tank tops.  Gin is operating a sleek WELDER, trying to perform

     micro-surgery on a DARTBOARD which Mac waves in all directions at

     the end of a short pole.

                               MAC

                     All right, six and seven...

     She blinks the spray from her eyes, and deftly SEARS the wire

     dividing those two numbers on the board.  As Mac keeps waving it,

     she goes off line.  Concentrates.  Gets it right.  The wire PEELS

     away...

                               MAC

                     Three and four...

     EXT. CABIN - DAY

     CLOSE on Gin operating a small steamshovel with a loading

     attachment on the front.  It is mounted with two 2 x 4's, set

     close together, protruding from the loader.  She maneuvers the

     wooden prongs toward a pile of big rocks.  But as she positions

     to scoop one up, her vehicle SWAYS WILDLY, and we PULL BACK to

     see it is...

     ...dangling from a CRANE, operated by Mac.  Gin stays with it,

     concentrates, and on the next pass she glides her boards UNDER a

     huge rock, LIFTING it awkwardly.  Ignoring the bumpy ride, she

     pivots, and deposits her prize in place atop what has become...

     ...a WALL of stones.

                               GIN

                     What the hell are we building?

     He gives this some reflection.

                               MAC

                     A chalet, I think.  Or an outhouse.

     EXT. OCEAN - NIGHT

     Mac and Gin paddle KAYAKS, side by side.  A full moon slams off

     the rolling surface of the sea.  Light chop, enough to bob pretty

     strong once they stop paddling.  His stopwatch GLOWS.  He says

     only...

                               MAC

                     Forty seconds.

     And she FLIPS OVER, submerging her head and torso, and we go...

     ...WITH her underwater, upside-down in the kayak, she STRUGGLES to

     FREE a group of tools which are tethered to her wetsuit.  Fumbling

     to BREAK the seal on a slender TUBE, which BURSTS, sending a GLOW

     of yellow-green LIGHT in all directions.  She fits the flexible

     tube around her head like a headlamp, pulling out...

     ...a small ELECTRIC FAN with side HANDGRIPS of black metal.

     Buffeted by the current, Gin manages to flip a small switch on the

     housing of the fan, and...

     ...nothing happens.  Again.  Nothing.  And again.  SHIT!  With a

     supreme effort, she tries to ROLL herself upright, but...

     ...can't quite make it.  Blind PANIC now, blowing bubbles, FLAILING

     at the kayak, which suddenly...

     ROLLS upright, manipulated by Mac.  She sputters and tries to

     THROW the tethered fan at him, but it snaps back and SLAMS her

     across the shoulder.  She is furious.

                               GIN

                     Get your 

fucking

 equipment

                     together, man, this is a

professional

 operation!!

     EXT. WOODS - DAY

     Gin in a clearing, arms at her sides, a determined look.  Mac is

     somewhere just behind us.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     This time, when you raise your

                     arm.  Don't breathe.

     She nods, got it.  Focused.  suddenly, in the clearing before her,

     a HOSTAGE SILHOUETTE TARGET pops up, the outline of a terrorist

     shielding himself with a hostage, Gin's arm rising with a BLUR

     and...

     ...BLAMM, BLAMM, BLAMM!!!  The paper terrorist is NAILED in the

     head.  Two out of three.  She lets out a thin stream of air.  Proud

     of herself, but too cool to gloat.

                               MAC

                     Very, very nice.  Had a tour

                     with the Mosad, did you?

     She turns slowly.

                               GIN

                     Where does this fit in the

                     game plan?

     His enigmatic, yet fond, smile.

                               MAC

                     Oh, it doesn't.  But one

                     never knows...

     A quiet wink.

                               MAC

                     You might need it with me.

     INT. CABIN - NIGHT

     CLOSE on Gin leaning back at a 45 degree angle.  She is sweating.

     This is hard.  HEAR a SLAM-THWOCK!  And ANOTHER.  PULL BACK to

     reveal...

     She is climbing UP the inside of the angled A-frame CEILING, using

     hand rods with powerful SUCTION cups, and similar suction devices

     on the balls of her feet.  A human spider, inching up the wall with

     everything she's got.  She SLAMS the next hand rod down, and it...

     ...slips.

                               GIN

                     Shit.

     ...as she TUMBLES eighteen feet to...

     DISAPPEAR in an ocean of STYROFOAM packing bubbles, which EXPLODE

     in all directions like popcorn in a nuclear accelerator.

     She has totally VANISHED.  Buried alive.

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     DID I SAY SHIT?

     Mac is wading into the sea of plastic bits, DIGGING her body out

     with his bare hands.  Once more, she comes up sputtering.

                               GIN

                     This one, I will 

not

 get!

     He's holding her in his arms.  Leans close.

                               MAC

                     But you will, you'll get it all.

                     You are actually...

     He kisses her.

                               MAC

                     Quite remarkable.

     Something in the way he looks at her.  Her return gaze is naked.

     It looks like love.

                               MAC

                     Take the rest of the evening off.

     And kisses her again.  Her eyes close.

     EXT. FRONT PORCH - MORNING

     Mac sits alone at a table, sipping coffee, reading Barron's.   A

     short-wave radio is playing BBC World Service.  Leaning against an

     open laptop, is...

     ...Mac's stopwatch.  He glances up at it.  What he sees makes him

     reach into a duffle at his feet, withdraw...

     ...a rectangular gun-metal gray DEVICE.  Looks like a cross between

     a remote control clicker and a large cell phone.  Turns it ON.  The

     power display GLOWS green.

     EXT. HILLTOP - MORNING

     Gin running alone.  Up the dirt path we've seen before.  Ahead, the

     crossroads, the sign.  The lonely phone booth.

     EXT. FRONT PORCH

     Mac tuning the device, which is an advance-design SCANNER.  We HEAR

     overlapping CONVERSATIONS through bursts of STATIC...

                               OVERLAPPING VOICES (O.S.)

                     ...

told

 you it's not a good time

                     f...either, personally, I've never

                     liked h...Giants' pitching, once

                     ag...late, you want the Chronicle

                     or don't y...

     INT. PHONE BOOTH

     Gin at the phone.  Inserts her credit card.  Catches her breath.

     EXT. FRONT PORCH

     Mac HEARS a phone RINGING over the scanner.  Punches RECORD, PLUGS

     the scanner INTO his laptop.

                               VOICE (O.S.)

                     Webber Assurance.

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     This is oh-four-six-one.  Hector

                     Cruz, please, on a secure line.

                               VOICE (O.S.)

                     Please hold.

     Mac's laptop screen in printing.  WEBBER ASSURANCE...HECTOR CRUZ...

                               VOICE (O.S.)

                     Go ahead, please.

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     Thank y...

     The line goes DEAD.

     So do Mac's eyes.  Click the scanner OFF.

     INT. PHONE BOOTH

     Gin in her throaty, playful voice...

                               GIN

                     ...no way I'm telling you shit.

                               CRUZ (O.S.)

                     Baker, this is an extremely

dangerous

 g...

                               GIN

                    ...right now, 

you're

 more dangerous

                    than he is.

     A pause.  Her voice is smiling.  Not her eyes.

                               CRUZ (O.S.)

                    You want to explain th...

                               GIN

                    If I tell you 

what

 this is, and

where

 this is, you'll send back-up,

                    and those morons will blow my cover,

                    and I'll be too dead to accept your

                    apology.

     A longer beat.

                               CRUZ (O.S.)

                     You're fucking him, aren't you?

                               GIN

                     Right to the wall.

     Her eyes are stone cold.  We've never seen her like this.  She

     looks like Mac.

                               CRUZ (O.S.)

                     You're over your head, Baker.

                               GIN

                     Only romantically.  I'll write to

                     him in prison.

     She's pulling out a different piece of plastic.  A drug store phone

     card.

                               CRUZ (O.S.)

                     Okay, it's your funeral.  Next time

                     I see you, I owe you a spanking.

                               GIN

                     Ooooo.  Is that a promise?

     Her cold eyes through his chuckle.

                               CRUZ (O.S.)

                     While you're on secure, do you want

                     a transfer?

                               GIN

                     Nope.  I'm headed back to the hot

                     tub.  I'll call again, if I'm in

                     the mood.

     And hangs up.  Collects her thoughts.  Inserts the phone card.

     Dials from memory.  Fifteen digits.  She must be calling Mars.

     At last...

     ...a man's VOICE.  In a strange sing-song language.

                               GIN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Is it over?

     SMASH CUT TO...

     EXT. TIENANMEN SQUARE, BEIJING - NIGHT

     Late night, mostly youngsters strolling the unfathomable vastness

     of the square.  At what seems an immeasurable distance, the huge

     illuminated portrait of Mao zedong hangs from the Gate of Heavenly

     Peace.  The scale of this place is unique in all the world.  PAN to

     a nearby parked...

     ...Mercedes.  COL. QIU of the People's Liberation Army, lounges at

     the wheel in full uniform.  Talks into his cellular...

                               QIU (subtitled Mandarin)

                     ...it's not over yet, it hasn't

                     even begun.

     He listens, winces.  We can hear Gin's voice yelling at him in

     Mandarin, dishing out a major piece of her mind.

                               QIU (subtitled Mandarin)

                     ...after Midnight, when his meeting

                     ends.  In Zhongnanhai.

     He doesn't like her attitude.  And there's plenty of it.

                               QIU (subtitled Mandarin)

                     The mask will be ready...

     A phalanx of TROOPS march past.  The Colonel turns his face to

     shadow.  Drops his voice...

                               QIU (subtitled Mandarin)

                     You fucking bring the bones.

     EXT. ZHONGNANKAI, BEIJING - LATE NIGHT

     The walled compound where the Politburo's elite work and live.

     From an open gateway...

     ...the MINISTER OF FINANCE appears, flanked by bodyguards in the

     drab green of PRC police.  They step onto the street and turn into

     a narrow hutong.  Down the alleyway comes a young man walking his

     bicycle through shadow.  Nearing us, he raises his right hand,

     and...

     ...SHOOTS each bodyguard TWICE through the chest, DROPS the bike,

     LURCHES at the Minister with something cylindrical and gleaming,

     and...

     ...SPRAYS the cowering official's FACE with something that makes

     him SCREAM in pain, the assassin RUNNING down the hutong for his

     life, as a fallen guard...

     ...SHOOTS him in the back, and he goes SPRAWLING, SKIDDING, face

     down.  Lifeless.

     INT. OPHTHALMOLOGIST'S OFFICE, BEIJING - NIGHT

     Col. Qiu walks beside a jaunty ophthalmologist, DR. HONGWEI, who

     is turning ON lights in the darkened office as they go.  Behind

     them, two PLA SOLDIERS half-carry the agonized minister.  Into an

     examination room...

     ...the minister gently set into an examining chair.  The doctor

     tilts the face up, shines a light into the minister's eyes, which

     makes him GROAN.  Eye drops now, which make the man YELP in pain.

     HONGWEI now moves the RETINAL SCANNER into position, resting the

     minister's chin on the slot provided.  Turns it ON.  The machine's

     panel FLASHES numbers in red lights.  Hongwei looks into the box

     from the reverse angle, to view...

     ...a red LASER SCAN moving across the pupil vertically, then

     retracing its path horizontally, left to right, right to left,

     up and down, at speed.

     Hongwei moves to a computer monitor with a graphic rendering of

     the retina, clicks the keypad to section off a slice of the

     graphic, and ENLARGES the section 100 times.  Looks like pixels.

     Back to the scanner.  Touch a button, and...

     ...a COMPACT DISC pops out of the disc drive.  He places it in a

     box, telling the minister...

                               HONGWEI (subtitled Mandarin)

                     We send this to the lab for finer

                     analysis.  One piece of advice,

                     huh...?

     The minister squints up, painfully.

                               HONGWEI (subtitled Mandarin)

                     No more red pepper in your eye.

                     Not for awhile.

     The doctor LAUGHS.  The minister seethes.  But Colonel Qiu...

     Has his mind.  On business.

     EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE, SAN FRANCISCO - LATE NIGHT

     CLOSE on Gin's gloved hand, holding something we can scarcely see,

     as MIST floats up between us.  It is a carabiner with a nylon rope

     attached, and she CLIPS it to a thick wire.

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     I'm freezing my tender parts.

     PULL BACK to see her in climbing harness, scaling a nearly-vertical

     CABLE, three feet in diameter.  Enveloped in fog which reveals,

     then conceals.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     I'm relieved to hear you have some.

     PULL WAY BACK to see him below her.  The two of them climbing

     the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE.  They are near the top, more than 700

     feet above the silvery black BAY.  A precarious, dizzying sight.

                               MAC

                     What's amazing, is that only eleven

                     workers died during construction of

                     this thing...

                               GIN (grim)

                     ...thanks for sharing...

                               MAC

                     Of course, the others were saved by

                     a safety net.

     Gin keeps her focus on the small railed PLATFORM just above her.  A

     gutsy gal.

                               MAC (loving it)

                     Now, as for the suicides, they

                     always jump 

facing

 the city.  Avoids

                     that tall fence about 50 stories down,

                     see it, there?

     She's at the platform.

                               GIN

                     I never liked you.

     Unclips one last time.  This won't be easy.  Throws her rope

     OVER the railing, and to her surprise, Mac braces himself with

     his legs...

     ...lifts her from the waist with strong hands, boosting her easily

     to the platform.  Grateful, she hates to confess it.

                               GIN

                     One act of fucking human kindness...

                               MAC

                     Call it a lapse.

     And he swings lightly up beside her.  The fog has rolled past.

     There are several million stars.  Transcendent beauty.  She slows

     her breath...

                               GIN

                     And how does 

this

 fit into

                     the game pl...

                               MAC

                     Oh, it doesn't.  We came for

                     the view.

     And from his contoured backpack, he pulls a bottle of Cristal.

     Flutes, wrapped in velvet.  He POPS the cork in one motion, and it

     SAILS to its watery doom.  She can't help but watch.

     One more motion to pour both glasses.  Hands one to her.  Toasts...

                               MAC

                     To Ginger Baker.

     He clicks her glass.  She stares straight in his eye.  Shows no

     surprise, no fear...

                               GIN

                     I'm partial to drummers.  If they

                     played with Clapton and Winwood.

     And takes a sip.  Cool as a goose.  Licks her lips.

                               GIN

                     The prescription bottle.  When you

                     stole my suitcase.

     But he's not drinking.  Only staring.  The wind has picked up.

                               GIN

                     Armand Baker was my husband, May 13

                     to October 27, 1982, he played alto

                     sax, I was 17 years old.

     She takes another sip.  Good wine.

                               GIN

                     He named me Ginger.  He likes

                     drummers, too.

                               MAC

                     And you get sentimental for him.

                     Every time you order drugs.

                               GIN

                     I have I.D. in that name.  I use

                     it for various things I don't want

                     traced.  When credit unions turn

                     their computers my way.

                               MAC

                     I could listen to you lie all night.

     She toasts him.

                               GIN (softly)

                     Same here, fella.

     Slowly, he reaches to an inside pocket, watching to see if she

     flinches.  Her eyes do flicker.  And follow.  He withdraws not a

     pistol, but a handful of...

                               MAC

                     Do you like diamonds?

     Nine DIAMONDS, so large, so exquisite, she has to keep her eyes

     from bugging.  Wow.

                               MAC

                     You asked.  Does the machine.

                     Make gold.

     Holy.  Christ.

                               MAC

                     Gold is shit.  It's six thousand

                     dollars a pound.  Worth your weight

                     in gold...?

     His eyes travel her body...

                               MAC

                     That would put you at seven

                     hundred thousand.

                               GIN

                     Would you pay it?

     And he leans.  Looks in her eyes.

                               MAC

                     When the light hits you just

                     right.  I'd pay more.

     She liked that.  Maybe a lot.

                               GIN

                     The machine.  That we are stealing.

                     Makes diamonds?

     No answer.

                               GIN

                     Real ones?

                               MAC

                     Gem quality.  First ever.  God

                     save Japan.

     He toasts Blessed Japan to the East.  Takes a hit.

                               MAC

                     A diamond reactor takes graphite,

                     runs it through a combination of

                     lasers, electron beams, and scanning-

                     tunnel mg microscopes.

     He means this.  She is transfixed.

                               MAC

                     This one uses krypton-fluorine laser,

                     with a new isotope of krypton.

     She looks down at the diamonds in his palm.  His fist CLOSES.

                               MAC

                     The atoms are rearranged.  And

                     the molecule of graphite becoznes

                     a molecule of...

     He turns his fist UPSIDE-DOWN.  And LETS GO!  She GASPS as the

     brilliant stones FALL toward the sea.  Watching, watching, long

     after the moonlit glimmer has evaporated.  A hush.

                               GIN

                     I hate it.  When you make

                     a point.

     INT. SHIKOKU MARU - DAY

     CLOSE on two open PASSPORTS.  The names say BANQUO MACDUFF and

     ISADORA DUNCAN.  The faces are Mac and Gin.

                               STEWARD (O.S.)

                     All right, then.  All set.

     PULL BACK to see Mac and Gin dressed as tropical tourists.  She

     hangs on his arm.

                               STEWARD

                     We will keep your passports in

                     our safe until Jakarta.

                               MAC

                     Of course.

                               STEWARD

                     You are Suite 16...

                               GIN

                     ...and never been kissed.

     The steward doesn't get it.  Gin shrugs, sorry.

                               MAC

                     We had booked Suite 9.

                               STEWARD

                     16 is our Tokugawa Suite, far

                     superior, trust me.

     Mac consents.  A little wary.

                               STEWARD

                     You luggage is 

in

 the room, 

these

                     are your keys, the housekeeper

                     will show you t...

                               GIN (pouting)

                     Oh.  Can't we stroll around the

                     port?  Just a little?

     The steward checks his watch.

                               STEWARD

                     I'd be on board in forty minutes.

                     Just to be safe.

                               GIN (sweet smile)

                     Better safe.  Than sorry.

     EXT. DOCK, COLOMBO, SRI LANKA - DAY

     Mac and Gin stroll down the gangway, to the seedy, dangerous-

     looking wharf.  At the bottom of the gangway...

     ...a wooden board to mark the whereabouts of guests.  Each

     stateroom has a peg, which can be moved to ABOARD or ASHORE.  Mac

     moves the peg for 16...

     ...to the ABOARD position.

     And off they go.

     INT. SMALL PLANE - NIGHT

     Mac in his jump suit piloting the Dehaviland DHC-53 across the

     endless black of the Indian Ocean.  For the moment, he seems alone.

     Then...

                               MAC

                     Down there.  Ten o'clock.

     He means a tiny grouping of LIGHTS.  Way down there, against the

     darkness.  He switches on the AUTOPILOT.  Goes back to...

     ...Gin, waiting in her jump suit, sitting on a large pack of gear

     just beside the window of the jump door.  Next to her, a pack that

     is even larger.  No fear in her eyes tonight.  Pure adrenaline.

                               GIN

                     Are you dumping fuel?

                               MAC

                     Changed my mind.  There's nothing

                     on the instruments downrange.  The

                     longer she flies before she ditches,

                     the less chance they notice on the

                     Bridge.

     As she stands, he begins to strap the huge pack ONTO her body.

     Jesus.  With her chute, and the other gear attached, the load makes

     us uneasy.  Not her.

                               MAC

                     You should lose the oxygen tank

                     at 8000 feet.

                               GIN

                     And how do I judge that?  Babe's

                     intuition?

     He points to an altimeter device on his wrist.  It says 12,000

     feet.  She cuts him a look.

                               GIN

                     So I just ask you on the way down?

                     Or were you planning to e-mail me.

     He pulls out an identical device.  Strapping it to her wrist...

                               MAC

                     I hate a crybaby.

     He straps the even-larger gear pack to himself.  Checks the path of

     the tiny lights far below.  Then, looks in her eyes...

                               MAC (simply)

                     You can do this.

     Not merely reassurance.  Affection.  Something connective between

     them.  You are my partner.  Her eyes send back that personal bond,

     and she nods.  I can do this.  Good girl.

     He pulls on his oxygen mask, goggles.  She does the same.  He OPENS

     the door, air BLASTING in.  One more look down below, and he holds

     up ten fingers.  Counts them down, nine...eight...

     She moves to the edge.  Watching him.  And on zero, she...

     ARCHES out INTO the starry VOID, and we go...

     WITH HER, the incomparable RUSH of freefall, straining to see him

     FOLLOW, skillfully altering his position to gain on her, coming

     close.  She is looking between him and her altimeter, as...

     ...his oxygen tank FALLS AWAY, and she CUTS hers loose, the air

     RUSHING past her, she looks DOWN...

     ...the lights below are beginning to take the shape of the

     freighter.  Back up to Mac, as he...

     PULLS his CHUTE, it is black and square, and JOLTS him to what

     seems like a full STOP far above her, and she YANKS her cord,

     but...

     ...nothing.  It doesn't open.  She is ROCKETING down, looking back

     up to see Mac make an exaggerated CUTTING sign across his body, and

     she closes her eyes, PULLS her secondary chute, which...

     POPS open, JARRING her violently, and she GASPS with the shock.  He

     is well above her now, she isoff course, frantically trying to

     manipulate her trajectory, seeing him swooping closer, the

     freighter LOOMS in distance, she looks down and suddenly...

     ...the sea is RUSHING at her, she FIGHTS her braking mechanism,

     SHOUTING at herself...

                               GIN

                     FLARE, FLARE...

     ...and SLAMS INTO the water, PLUNGING down, twisting, disoriented

     CUTTING her chute loose, struggling not to get tangled, in a panic

     to BREAK her light tube, which...

     ...GLOWS yellow-green, illuminating the freezing depths, she FITS

     it around her head, fights now to pull out the small ELECTRIC FAN

     we've seen before, KICKING herself toward the surface, fighting

     against the weight of her gear pack, she...

     ...flips the switch, and the fan becomes a PROPELLER which ROCKETS

     her upward, but she loses her hold on one handgrip, tries

     desperately to hang on with one hand, but it...

     ...PULLS FREE, goes SHOOTING off into the blackness without her,

     one instant of TERROR in her eyes, and...

     Mac is THERE, diving at her with his propeller, she GRASPS his legs

     in a death grip, and suddenly, they are...

     AT the surface, Gin GASPING for air, and he CUTS his propeller,

     CRADLES her body with one strong arm, murmuring in her ear...

                               MAC

                     It's over, it's over...

     Her eyes are wild.

                               MAC

                     Catch your breath, quickly.

                     Hang on for the wake.

     She sees the FREIGHTER now, a black mountain CUTTING the sea, a

     huge WAKE pluming from its bow.  She grabs his waist with all

     she's got.

                               GIN

                     DO IT! GO!

     And he KICKS the propeller to LIFE, they ZOOM off, straight AT the

     towering wake and burst THROUGH it, RACING to the freighter's

     looming hull, speeding alongside, Mac looking up to find...

     ...a series of metal RUNGS, which begin twelve feet above the water

     line, climbing the dizzying height to the freighter's deck, far

     above.  Mac has a Kevlar rope with a GRAPPLING HOOK, and as he

     reaches the rungs, he...

     ...THROWS it high, one of the pronged hooks CATCHING on a rung

     twenty feet above them...

                               MAC

                     HOLD TIGHT!

                               GIN

                     IF YOU FUCKING INSIST!

     And he LETS GO of the propeller, PULLING both of them, laden with

     gear, OUT of the water with sheer brute strength.  PLANTING his

     feet against the outward curve of the hull, he CLIMBS with all his

     strength, hand over hand, until he finally...

     ...GRASPS the bottom rung.  He PULLS them up, until she can GRAB

     ON.  They hold tight to their rung for a beat.  He attaches them

     both with metal carabiner clips.

                               MAC

                     If I were you, I'd watch

                     the desserts.

                               GIN

                     Boy, I'll bet you were in

                     shape before you got old.

                               MAC

                     Too long ago to remember.

     And pulls himself up to the second rung, so that he is standing an

     the first.  Offers her his hand...

                               GIN

                     I can take it from here, thanks.

     Suit yourself.  They begin to climb up the rungs, like a tilted

     backwards ladder, re-attaching their clips as they go.

                               GIN

                     If you'd packed my primary chute

                     right, I wouldn't ha...

                               MAC

                     Yes, you would.  You're a girl.

     Up, up.  And stop.  They are nearly halfway to the top.  Looking

     across the curved hull to...

     ...a large circular HATCH.  Thirty feet away.  The goal.  Mac

     pulls from his pack...

     ...their SUCTION CUP gear.  With practiced speed, they fasten cups

     to the balls of their feet, take hold of the hand rods with cups

     attached, and Mac takes the lead as they begin to...

     ...move LATERALLY across the hull's surface toward the hatch.  Mac

     is amazingly agile at the arduous process, scuttling sideways like

     a crab across the precariously tilted-back hull.  Gin is deter-

     mined, but falls well behind, intent on making every suction seal

     solid one.  Dark water RACES by beneath her.,  By the time she looks

     up at the hatch...

     He is gone.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Anytime you're ready.

     She looks UP sharply.  He is ABOVE the hatch, attached to the hull

     by the balls of his feet, hanging down like a bat.  Noting her

     astonishment...

                               MAC

                     Better angle.

     That it is.  He has pulled a thick cylinder from his pack.  It's a

     battery-operated AIR WRENCH, and with a menacing WHIRR, only

     partially masked by the ship's wake, he begins to swiftly POP all

     the rivets around the hatch.

     Gin has pulled out the slender WELDING TOOL we saw in the shower,

     and begins CUTTING through the metal seals around the hatch's rim.

     At thecrucial moment...

                               MAC

                     You might want to move aside...

     Which she BARELY does, as the hatch door PLUMMETS past her to the

     sea.  BIG splash.  Gone.  When she turns back, Mac is already

     THROUGH the opening and she follows, their yellow-green headlamps

     partially revealing...

     ...the maximum-security HOLD.  We've seen this with Carlsby.  The

     fork lift.  The shadowy multitude of PLATFORMS on their gimbals,

     all SWAYING, in different directions with the plunging of the ship.

     Gin just stands, staring everywhere, like she's broken into Fort

     Knox.  The ROAR of the engines is louder here, and he moves close

     to her to speak beneath it...

                               MAC

                     May I trouble you for the torch?

                     Or would you rather just dance.

     Oh.  Slightly embarrassed at her lack of split-second efficiency,

     she tries to find the thing in her gear.  After watching her fumble

     for a bit...

                               GIN

                     I know I packed it.

     ...he just reaches in and pulls it out.  A small LANTERN which he

     FLICKS on, brilliantly ILLUMINATING the entire hold.  Scans the

     platforms...polnts to a CRATE wrapped in 4-ply heavy duty plastic

     membrane.

                               MAC

                     Coal into diamonds.  A wealth

                     machine.

                               GIN

                     How do you know that's it?

                               MAC (as if stating the obvious)

                     It's 12 by 9 by 7 feet.  And it's

                     the only thing worth waterproofing,

                     in case the ship sinks.

                               GIN (softly)

                     ...you twit.

                               MAC

                     Hmmn?

                               GIN

                     I'm just finishing your sentence.

                     Can't you answer a question with-

                     out making me feel stupid?

     He's heading toward the swaying platforms...

                               MAC

                     Why would I bother?

     He is climbing onto a lower platform, easily vaulting up to the

     magic crate.  She follows, but it isn't as easy as he's made it

     look.  She has to scramble, almost falling.  He's already pulled

     from his gear...

     ...six rubber POUCHES.  She hands him her welding tool, and he

     begins attaching the pouches to the top and sides of the crate.

     The plunging ship has the platform really rocking.

                               GIN (concerned)

                     They don't 

look

 like flotation

                     bags...

                               MAC (working fast)

                     Shit.  Well then, let's forget

                     the whole thing.

     She stares at him.

                               GIN

                     Okay, it was a dumb ques...

     His eyes come UP.  So fast that her breath stops.  He looks plenty

     angry.

                               MAC

                     Let's get one thing straight.  I

                     don't work with partners much,

                     because basically, I find most

                     people to be idiots.

     She swallows.  Hard.

                               MAC

                     You, in contrast, are first-rate.

     He watches the effect of that play across her eyes.

                               MAC

                     And if 

I

 think so.  Maybe 

you

                     should start thinking the same.

                     Now move your ass.

     And goes back to work.  She pauses a beat.  Then pulls out two

     lengths of Kevlar rope.  Begins securing their platform to the one

     above, to minimize the amount of sway.  As she struggles with this,

     she sees him finish by welding a very small gray BOX to the top of

     the crate.

     When he glances up, he sees her staring at the box.

                               MAC

                     GPS transponder.  Sends a scrambled

                     signal by satellite...

     He touches the device.  It BEEPS.  A light glows RED.

                               MAC

                     Precise coordinates.  You could

                     find a golf ball in the Gobi Desert.

     He rises.  JUMPS down to the floor.

                               GIN

                     Where you g...

                               MAC (walking away)

                     Fork lift.

                               GIN

                     That's 

my

 assignm...

                               MAC (turning back)

                     Unless you've got the keys,

                     someone has to hot wire it.

     Oh.

                               MAC

                     Finish up on the floaters.

     And heads off toward the fork lift.  Finish up?  She looks at

     the rubber pouches.  They seem finished to her.  Tugs at a couple.

     On pretty firmly.  Across the way, we HEAR the fork lift turn its

     engine OVER.

                               GIN

                     Won't they hear it?

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Over these engines?  Through five

                     feet of steel?

     She hurriedly secures the last of her Kevlar lines.

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     Hell, if they do, they don't have

                     the second key to get in.

     He is driving up in the rickety fork lift.  Weaving around crates

     and equipment.

                               MAC

                     Thank God for redundant security.

     He hops lightly from the fork lift, reaches up, and she jumps down

     INTO his arms.  Quickly, the switch places, Gin climbing into the

     idling fork lift, as Mac clambers up to UNBOLT the crate's pallet

     with his air wrench...

     Gin moves the fork lift into position.  Mac bracing his legs

     against neighboring cargo, using all his strength to hold our

     crate steady.  He is 

really

 straining.

                               GIN

                     How many tries do I get?

                               MAC (with effort)

                     One, before I beat you senseless,

                     dump you over the side, and donate

                     your share to charity.

     She brings the fork UP.  The crate sways slightly.  She lines up

     her prongs against the pallet's receiving holes...

                               GIN

                     You gotta work on that impatient

                     streak.

     ...and slips them straight IN.  First try.

                               GIN (amazed)

                     How professional.

     She LIFTS the crate, but the boat LURCHES, and she nearly LOSES it

     off the fork.

     But she doesn't.  SWINGS her load around now.  Heading for the open

     hatchway, the roiling sea racing by.  Picking up SPEED, slightly...

                               GIN

                     Uh.  Thing on the left is

                     the brakes?

                               MAC (laconic)

                     Or the thing on the right.

     By now she is really ROLLING toward the wide open spaces...

                               GIN

                     MAC, IT'S JAMMED!

     He POUNCES off the platform, FLYING after the lift as it

     ACCELERATES THROUGH the opening...

                               MAC

                     JUMP, for God's sa...

     ...TIPPING at the hatchway lip, the crate sliding OFF the prongs,

     our forklift TUMBLING OUT the hatch to the sea, just as Mac...

     ...SNATCHES Gin by her HAIR, pulling her FREE of the falling

     forklift, CATCHING the rim of the hatchway with his free hand, Gin

     SCREAMING in fright and pain, BLINDLY grabbing his arm to be...

     ...jerked BACK to safety.

     Clutching Mac, she watches the sea behind them.  Where the crate

     and the forklift disappeared.

                               MAC

                     You did activate the floaters.

     Her head WHIPS around.  Aghast.

                               GIN

                     Activa...

                               MAC

                     I did say, 'Finish up on the

                     floaters'.  Surely, you heard me.

     Her life.  Flashes before her eyes.  As behind the ship...

     ...the crate BOBS to the surface.  We can see the tiny red light on

     the transponder from here.

                               MAC (softly)

                     Oh.  Guess I did it m'self.

     She WHIPS back, and starts POUNDING at him with her fists.  He is

     laughing so hard, he takes a few good shots before he can GRASP her

     wrists.  She SPITS in his face.  He strikes back by...

     ...kissing her hard.  She struggles for a beat.

     And then she lets him.

     When they finish, he reaches to UNZIP her jumping suit.  All the

     way.  Pulls it down gently, revealing...

     ...her evening gown.  A wrinkle-free material which slips down

     across her legs from where it had been bunched across her hips.

     He is unzipping his outfit as well, revealing formal wear of his

     own.  He stuffs the suits into his gear pack, removing only...

     ...her evening bag and shoes.  Then lifting both packs, he...

                               GIN

                     Um...

     ...FLINGS them into the black ocean.  Gone.

                               GIN

                     ...I wouldn't do that.

     So he turns.  She looks really stunned.  And scared.

                               MAC

                     Excuse me?

                               GIN

                     Well...I saw our suction things.

                     Lying...over...there?

     She points.  To where no suction things are lying.

                               GIN (a mouse)

                     ...so I put 'em in my pack?

     His eyes WIDEN.

                               GIN

                     Or maybe.  I put 'em there.

     And points.  To where they are.

     She tilts her head.  Gives him a great smile.  Is he enraged?  His

     dry grin says, not hardly.

                               MAC

                     I like a quick study.

     Then again.  You can never tell.

     EXT. FREIGHTER DECK - NIGHT

     Expansive barely-lit deck under a canopy of stars.  A silver-haired

     couple in immaculate evening attire stroll alone, he is humming to

     barely-audible dance music from a distant lounge.  She clings to

     his arm, it is romantic.  Until they reach the railing where he

     turns, and says something quietly in German...

     She stiffens.  Pulls her arm away from his.  She sneers coldly,

     calls him a name in German, and he UNLOADS on her, a barrage of

     German-language INVECTIVE that would melt a tank.  She absorbs the

     abuse without flinching, turns toward the rail, HAWKS and...

     ...SPITS over the side.  Strides away from him.  He watches her go.

     Then...

     ...SPITS over the side himself.  And follows her.

     Half a beat.

     Mac's head APPEARS above the rail.  Just where they spit.  Not a

     mark on him.

     INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

     Our old German couple are DANCING wonderfully in each other's arms

     Inspiring.  PAN a dozen really old couples dancing to the three-

     piece Filipino ensemble, until we come to...

     Gin and Mac spinning slowly, flawlessly, their eyes telling the

     surrounding geezers that they are very much in love.  We CLOSE to

     hear their sweet murmurings...

                               MAC

                     ...no matter how many stones we

                     make, the diamonds are just an

                     appetizer.

                               GIN (dreamily)

                     And the meal...?

                               MAC

                     My contract.  With DeBeers.

     She blinks.  Hit by a ton of bricks.

                               GIN

                     Oh my G...

                               MAC

                     Sensible folks, DeBeers.  A world

                     monopoly in diamonds based on one

                     simple principle...something's only

                     priceless if it's scarce.

     He WHIRLS her in a tight spin.  The geriatic Germans can only watch

     and envy.

                               MAC

                     These guys dig up all the diamonds

                     on the planet, just to keep them 

out

                     of circulation.  Otherwise, you could

                     buy 'em at the Five and Dime...

                               GIN

                     Watch the old guy stuff, they don't

                     have dimestores anym...

                               MAC

                     Imagine the chaos 

we

 could cause.

     She is imagining.

                               GIN

                     You said 'contract'...

                               MAC

                     We're sort of bounty hunters.

     Gin likes the ring of that.  Green eyes dance with delight.

                               MAC

                     Our machine is worth 

far

 more

                     dead.  Than alive.

                               VOICE (O.S.)

                     Glad to see you're both alive.

     They look over.  The officious STEWARD from this afternoon.  Now in

     black tie.

                               STEWARD

                     When you missed cocktails.  

And

                     supper.  I thought of knocking

                     on your door...

     Mac turns Gin so that she can send the boob a lazy smile...

                               GIN

                     Oh, I 

wish

 you had.  We 

love

 having

                     strangers join us!  Maybe 

later

...?

     Mac turns her once more, so that he faces the flummoxed steward

     across her bare shoulder...

                               MAC

                     Promise you an interesting time...

     Trademark smile.

                               MAC

                     Or my name's not Banquo MacDuff.

     You twit.

     INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

     Our couple moving down the softly-lit hallway, past the burnished

     doors of luxury suites.  Her arms wrapped around one of his, their

     bodies close together.

                               MAC

                     ...well, I 

would

 ask what you're

                     doing with the rest of your life.

                     But that's your own bloody affair,

                     isn't it?

     She sighs.

                               GIN

                     Yeh.  Anyway, before you get too

                     choked up on the farewell.  I feel

                     I owe you a confession.

     He glances down.  Really?  Really.

                               GIN

                     Time has come to tell you.  What

                     business.  I'm actually in.

     He thinks about this.  And then...

                               MAC

                     Not here.

     EXT. DECK - NIGHT

     Mac leads her along the empty moonlit deck to...

     ...the BOWSPRIT, a long, narrow platform, ringed by a flimsy rail,

     it juts far out above a churning sea.  The whipping of the wind

     makes it seem all the more precarious.

                               MAC

                     It only looks dangerous...

     Holds out his hand.  She hesitates.

                               MAC

                     You couldn't fall off.  Unless

                     someone threw you over.

     Gives her the smile.  She puts her hand in his, and they hop

     UP to the platform.  Walk its length to the very end.  He turns

     now, leans casually against the fragile railing.  They are inches

     apart.

                               MAC

                     More intimate.  For a confession.

     Gin looks down at the plume of wake leaping off the bow.

                               MAC

                     What business.  You are actually.

                     In.

     She looks up.  To his eyes.  Into them.

                               GIN

                     Yeh.  I'm not an art dealer.

                               MAC

                     Of course not.  You're a cop.

     And tilts his head.  Just to one side.

                               MAC

                     An insurance investigator for

                     Webber Assurance, your boss is

                     an idiot named Hector Cruz, you've

                     been there four years and ten

                     months, you're quite the rising star.

                               GIN (evenly)

                     Nope.

     His head tilts.  Just a little farther.

                               MAC (very softly)

                     Nope?

                               GIN

                     I'm a thief, Mac.

     Holds the look.

                               GIN

                     For five years, I've used the

                     database of every client Webber

                     has to plan my jobs.  Museums,

                     banks, jewelers, rich people, I

                     have floor plans, alarm codes,

                     passwords, the works.

     His face absolutely neutral.  Unreadable.

                               GIN

                     I've made a fortune.  It's not

                     enough.

                               MAC

                     Why n...

                               GIN

                     Why wasn't it enough for you?

     He falls silent.

                               GIN

                     The Vermeer that was stolen from

                     Hancock Tower?  That was my job.

                     I scaled the building with

                     electromagnets, and parachuted

                     down an air vent...

     No smile at her lips.  Strictly business.

                               GIN

                     ...

after

 mailing the painting.  To

                     where we're going next, actua...

                               MAC (quietly)

                     We.

     She looks him up and down.

                               GIN

                     Yeh, we.  You passed the audition.

     Now he smiles.  First time.

                               MAC (a murmur)

                     Imagine my relief.

                               GIN

                     I need a partner.  For the biggest,

                     smartest, job.  Ever.  The one you

                     retire off of, because nothing else

                     could ever compare with the rush.

                               MAC

                     Ever.  Is such a long time.

                               GIN

                     This is a job that can only be done

                     in 

one

 place, in 

one

 split-second

                     in human history.  If we miss that

                     instant.  We lose.

                               MAC

                     And it's worth...?

                               GIN

                     Eight 

billion

 dollars.  That's

                     eight 

thousand million

.

                               MAC

                     How much in shillings?

                               GIN

                     You're not a real trusting guy.

                               MAC

                     And I tried so hard to hide that.

                               GIN

                     It's two jobs.  The first steals

                     something priceless from the National

                     Palace Museum in Taipei.  We don't

                     keep that.  We trade it in for our

                     ticket to the show.

                               MAC

                     One moment in time, you s...

                               GIN

                     Midnight, July 1, 1997.  Eight

                     days from now.  The moment that

                     Hong Kong is annexed by china.

     And now.  She has his interest.  She can see that.

                               GIN

                     80-20 split.

                               MAC

                     Don't be so hard on yourself.  It's

                     your plan, you should take at least

                     thirty perc...

                               GIN

My

 80, 

your

 20.  Asshole.

     He thinks this over.

                               MAC

                     50-50.  Or you can swim to Taipei.

     She is not impressed.  Or afraid.  He grins...

                               MAC

                     What are you gonna do with six

                     billion dollars that you can't do

                     with four?

                               GIN

                     Hold the record.  Alone.

     This.  He likes.  So much that he leans to kiss her, with

     surprising tenderness.

                               MAC

                     Your share is 50%.  And one dollar.

     Her hard stare.  And then, she smiles.  Just barely.  Still in his

     arms...

                               GIN

                     I like what you left.  In the hold.

                               MAC

                     You didn't even see wha...

                               GIN

                     A lump of coal.  A pair of pliers.

                     A note that said, 'Squeeze hard'.

     This is the most taken with her that he has ever looked.  She leans

     up and kisses him.  Whispers...

                               GIN

                     Squeeze hard.

     EXT. STREET, SHIHLIN DISTRICT, TAIPEI - LATE NIGHT

     Ugly section of an ugly town.  Unmarked warehouses, alleyways

     teeming with food stalls.  HEAR a motorcycle approach, and see...

     ...Gin driving, Mac sits behind her.  Going real fast, maybe she's

     showing off, we FOLLOW them DOWN a blind alley, as she smoothly

     WHEELS them into...

     ...an open FREIGHT ELEVATOR.  She climbs off, he doesn't.  As Gin

     goes to work the controls, Mac sees a cat curled in the corner,

     mewing softly.

                               GIN

                     That's Madame Chiang Kaishek, she's

                     my bud.  An evil streak a mile wide.

     The elevator JOLTS to life.

                               MAC

                     No surprise.

     They CLANG upward.  Mac seems utterly relaxed.  Gin paces a little,

     hugging herself.  Her features tense.

                               MAC (gently)

                     Tired?

     She blinks up.  He is straddling the bike.  Smiling at her.

                               GIN

                     I have a lot on my mind.

     Ah.  Well...

                               MAC

                     You look beautiful doing it.

     He seems to mean that.  And it seems to melt her a little.  She

     sags against the wall, closing her eyes, as...

     ...they JOLT to a stop.  She PULLS the heavy LEVER, and the door

     SLIDES noisily open, to reveal...

     ...a gigantic LOFT.  She flicks on a dim light, but we see only

     part of the cavernous space.  She strolls, Madame Chiang trotting

     along behind.  Mac follows, looking around, then down to see...

     ...a pile of MAIL, cables, packages.  The unopened MAILING TUBE we

     saw in the Hancock Tower penthouse.  He crouches, lifts the tube in

     his hands...

                                    GIN (O.S.)

                     You wanna buy a Vermeer?

                                    MAC

                     Rather steal it.

                                    GIN (O.S.)

                     Been there, done that.

     He nods to himself.  Guess so.  He rises to see her framed against

     the gaping starlit opening of a huge LOADING DOOR.  The twinkling

     island lies below.  But here, Gin stares down at...

     ...an elaborate architectural MODEL.  Fifteen feet across, it

     features an imposing yellow, pagoda-roofed BUILDING, built into

     the side of a model MOUNTAIN.  Formal gardens, fountains, tiny

     Kuomintang flags.  Stretching away from the building, a large

     portion of the CITY, with shops and alleyways elaborately detailed.

     As Mac joins her...

                               GIN

                     National Palace Museum, Taipei,

                     Taiwan.  Repository of four

                     thousand years of Chinese culture...

     He bends to lift UP the detachable roof.  All the rooms are

     detailed within, down to exhibit cases.

                               GIN

                     Works of gold, bronze, jade, onyx,

                     pots and scrolls, paintings and

                     porcelains and lacquer work.  Every

                     treasure the Kuomintang could loot

                     before the Reds took over.

                               (beat)

                     Ever rob the place?

                               MAC

                     No.  If memory serves.

     She takes him by the hand, and leads him toward the gaping doorway,

     walking straight toward it...

                               GIN

                     You need to eat something, or

                     are you ready for sex?

     And just at the edge of it...

                               MAC (torn)

                     The options seem so limited.

     They jump THROUGH the opening.  And VANISH.

     Our ANGLE closes on the doorway, to see OUT now, sitting like a

     jewel against the hillside...

     ...the NATIONAL PALACE MUSEUM, looking exactly like the model.  The

     town spread out beyond.  Just as in the model.  And now we TILT

     sharply DOWN to see...

     ...a loading PLATFORM, suspended above the island, only a few feet

     below our opening.  Like a balcony without a railing.  Mac and Gin

     already sinking down onto a waiting futon.

     Looks like he's made his pick.  Among limited options.

     INT. LOFT - SUNRISE

     CLOSE on the MODEL MUSEUM in early light.  Propped against it, the

     unrolled Vermeer.  Pinned to the painting, a note we can't read.  In

     the B.G., HEAR what sounds like the rattling of a SUBWAY TRAIN,

     which runs a short distance and STOPS.  We TILT ANGLE now, to

     see...

     ...through the sunlit opening of the loading door.  Mac's head

     APPEARS, peeking up over the lip.

                               MAC

                     Ginny...?

     LOST in another brief subway rumble.  He lightly VAULTS up through

     the doorway.  Looks around, no Gin.  Goes to the model.  Lifts the

     note pinned to the Vermeer...

                               MAC (reads)

                     This lovely parting gift can be

                     yours.  If the price is right.

     Stumped.  Not in his cultural database.  He looks at the model, to

     see that the stretch of city between museum and mountain has been

     lifted away, revealing...

     ...an underground RAILWAY TUNNEL between the two.  Mac examines the

     tiny train, the tracks, the winding route.  From the side walls,

     well above the tracks, huge VENTILATION PIPES open onto the tunnel.

     Starting at the museum end, they are labeled VENT #1, and so on.

     There are five.  The last one shortly before...

     ...the mountain.  Where a cavernous opening is labeled BARRACKS.

     Tiny toy soldiers kneel on a landing, rifles in position to shoot

     at the oncoming train.  And as Mac studies this curiously...

     ...the nearby SUBWAY RATTLES the walls once more.  Sounds like it's

     in the room, somehow.  Mac rises.  Saunters across the loft, and we

     see for the first time the enormity of this space.  Suddenly, the

     floor ends, and we are looking down nearly thirty feet onto...

     ...a spacious HANGAR, outfitted with 150 feet of RAILWAY TRACK, at

     the far end of which sits a full-sited TRAIN CAR, exactly like the

     one in the model.  And just below us...

     ...Gin crouches on a concave platform of corrugated metal, eighteen

     feet above the track.  She holds a remote control device, which she

     uses to REV the train's engine, far down the line.  She looks

     really tense.

                               MAC

                     Good morning.

     She startles slightly.  Shuts OFF the train's engine.  As she looks

     up to him now, the silence is noticeable.  He crouches down, only a

     foot or so above her...

                               MAC

                     Quite a parting gift.  I would

                     have settled for roses.

                               GIN

                     It's a joke.  You know, a joke?

                     People who have a sense of humor

                     make them?

     He's clueless.  But smiling.

                               GIN

                     You're rich, go buy an American,

                     have him fill you in on the culture.

                               MAC

                     Ah.  American culture.  Well,

                     that 

is

 a joke.

     He leans down.  Strokes her hair very gently.

                               MAC (murmurs)

                     Relax.  It's only eight billion

                     dollars.

     She looks up into his eyes.  But she can't smile.

                               MAC (softly)

                     Your Vermeer?  I like this View Of

                     Delft better than the larger one.

                     The sky is more emotionally rendered.

     Staring in his eyes.  And just as softly back...

                               GIN

                     Nice.  When a sky is that.

     He holds the look.  Very strong and very gentle...

                               MAC

                     Is it easier now? Not pretending.

     Is it?

                               MAC

                     Not pretending you're an innocent.

                     Not pretending you...like me.

     No answer.  Effortlessly, he hops down to join her.  Never losing

     eye contact.

                               MAC

                     Here's a tip from an old-timer.

                     Never forget who you are...

     Settles next to her.  Bodies touching.

                               MAC

                     It gives you someone to be.  When

                     you stop pretending.

     Okay?  She nods, slowly.  Her eyes moving over his face.  Maybe

     more feelings going through her than she can sort out.

                               MAC (still soft)

                     So.  Our train runs from the museum,

                     through an underground tunnel.  To

                     a mountain.

                               GIN

                     Because the museum displays 10,000

                     relics at any given moment.  But

                     there are 60 

times

 that many, stored

                     in the mountain.

     This overwhelms.  Even Mac.

                               GIN

                     Which is why it's guarded.  By an

                     army.

     She is unfastening the small pack at her feet...

                               GIN

                     The train shuttles relics to and

                     from storage.  It looks exactly

                     like that.

     So Mac looks down the line.  At the train car.

                               GIN

                     I've been down the air ducts four

                     times.  The train always has two

                     armed guards.  Always travels between

                     32 and 36 miles per hour.  Relics

                     don't like to be jostled too much.

                               MAC (all business now)

                     Your model has five vents.

                               GIN

                     We go down the first.  Back up the

                     third, if you're lucky.  If not, we

have

 to get out by the fourth.

                               MAC (simply)

                     Then we will.

     She pulls from the pack four thick DISCS, each about eight inches

     in diameter, each with a toggle switch and a wrist loop.  She

     starts to put two of them on...

                               GIN

                     Electromagnets, incredibly powerful.

                     This switch is on-off.

     He gestures at the train, the track, the hangar...

                               MAC

                     Seems like overkill.  For one

                     simple jump.

                               GIN

                     Well, it's an eight billion

                     dollar jump.  You miss the

                     train...you've missed the train.

     Flicks ON her remote.  Down the track the engine REVS.  Like crazy.

                               GIN

                     We've got five days to grab the

                     Bones, trade them for the Scan, and

                     pull our 8 billion out of Hong Kong.

                     Once midnight passes on July 1st...

                               MAC

                     ...we've missed the train, yeh.

                     The Bones?  The Scan?

                               GIN

                     Oh.  Have I neglected to fill

                     in the details?

                               MAC

                     An oversight.

                               GIN

                     Which I learned from the master.

                     Hey.  Wish me luck...

     CLICKS the remote, the train LEAP5 forward, 36 MPH never seemed so

     fast!  She has a split-second to LEAP down, the train SAILS beneath

     her, Gin's feet GRAZE the back end of the platform at the rear of

     the car, she SWIPES DESPERATELY with the magnets, can't connect,

     and is THROWN into a ROLL along the side of the tracks.

     She's UP on her knees, watching the train SLAM into the massive

     blue PADS at the end of the track.  She is bruised, shaken, but

     most of all, really worried and 

really

 pissed.

                               MAC (quietly)

                     Jump sooner.

     She pulls out the remote...

                               GIN

                     Be my fucking guest.

     The train ROCKETS backward, straight PAST where she kneels, to

     BRAKE at the start of the track once more.  She nods up to Mac,

     who is strapping on his magnets.  He crouches, nods, ready.  And

     the train...

     ...BLASTS toward him, he counts, JUMPS, and SLAMS ONTO the ROOF of

     the train, which PLOWS into the heavy padding, FLINGING him twenty

     feet like a rag doll to land in a HEAP.

     He lies still.  Then blinks, surprised he's alive.  HEARS a rich

     whiskey LAUGHTER down the track.

                               MAC

                     I'm too 

old

 for this shit!

     And as he pulls himself up.  She is staring at him, from her

     knees...

                               GIN

                     Know a dude named Wiley Coyote?

     ...with what can only be described as love.

                               GIN (softly)

                     Forget it.

     EXT. NATIONAL PALACE MUSEUM, TAIPEI - DAY

     AERIAL VIEW down toward the sweeping pagoda roofs of the MUSEUM,

     the formal gardens, the fountains, the tree-lined driveway.  CLOSE

     now, as a cab pulls up, a couple emerges...

     She is first.  Chanel suit with an 

extremely

 short skirt, revealing

     endless legs.  She helps him from the taxi, a white-haired geezer

     who seems well past 90, fumbling with his walking stick, and making

     quick, erratic, bird-like glances in every direction.

     She takes his arm for support.  Murmurs in his ear...

                               GIN

                     Isn't it easier now?  Not pretending?

     Gives him a full-tongue KISS in the ear, which has bystanders

     noticing.  Starts to help him up the stairs, still whispering

     close...

                               GIN

                     Five years, you won't need

                     make-up.

     In answer he GRABS her ass, and she YELPS with delight, attract-

     ing attention all around.  His turn to whisper, as he massages

     her backside...

                               MAC

                     We agreed.  No underwear.

                               GIN

                     Overkill.  I can do it with legs.

     He stops.  Gives the long legs a dubious twice-over.

                               MAC

                     I'd lose the underwear.

     INT. MUSEUM - DAY

     Mac leaning on her arm, as they pass case after case.  Bronzes,

     jades, lacquer work.  Every object exquisite, priceless.

                               GIN

                     The Oracle Bones date back to the

                     Shang Dynasty, 3500 years ago.

                     They are writings...carved into

                     ox bones, tortoise shells...

     She cuddles close to him.  They approach a tour group, the female

     guide speaking in four European languages.  Really loud.

                               GIN

                     The oldest Chinese writing any-

                     where, the first proof of Chinese

                     civilization.

                               MAC

                     What makes 

this

 one so valuable?

     He stops, drowned out by the tour guide, rhapsodizing over an urn.

     Butts into her rap...

                               MAC (subtitled Italian)

                     Except it's Chien-lung, 

mimicking

                     Sung Period.  The color is far too

                     delicate.

     The woman gets 

real

 insulted.  Apparently, he's right.

                               MAC (subtitled German)

                     It's all right, you have a nice

                     body.

     And walks on.  Confides to Gin...

                               MAC

                     When you're old, you can do

                     anything

     GRABS her bottom once more, altering her voice slightly on...

                               GIN

                     There we are.

     A separate display room.  A single steel pedestal.  Under the

     smart-glass security case, one single object.  It is a fragile,

     yellowed fragment of bone.  The shoulder blade of an ox.  Covered

     with tiny script.

                               GIN

                     Last year, ancient artifacts were

                     discovered in the Gulf of Mexico.

                     An Olmec civilization, 3200 years old.

     No tourists in the display room.  A velvet rope is up.  Three

     GUARDS mill at the entrance.  This exhibit is off-limits.

                               GIN

                     Amazingly, markings on these

                     Olmec figures were identified

                     as Shang Dynasty writing...

     A sign explains, SORROWFUL TO INFORM ORACAL BONE CLOSE FOR TRAVEL

     EXIBITION UNTIL IS NOVEMBER.

                               GIN

                     This 

particular

 Bone is price-

                     less, because it is the one that

                     establishes the 

link

.  

Proves

 that

                     American civilizations descend from

                     Chinese ancestors.

     She is pulling out her coin purse, as they stand by the rope.

     Unzipping it slowly...

                               GIN

                     Exactly the kind of propaganda

                     shit they eat up in Beijing.  The

                     mainland would pay 

anything

 to get

                     its paws on th...

     As her shaking 'elderly' companion SPASMS, knocking the purse OUT

     of her hand, it CLATTERS to the floor, sending a hundred coins

     ROLLING in all directions.  Some under the rope.

                               MAC (old guy voice)

                     SHIT!  BLOODY 

HELL

!!!

     And collapses to the hardwood floor in search of the coins, HOWLING

     as he BANGS his knees.  Some bystanders hurry to help.  And one of

     the guards.  As Mac tries to crawl under the rope to pursue

     coins...

     ...the guard STOPS him with a firm hand, pointing at the pidgen-

     English sign.  Meanwhile, calmly, 

very

 slowly...

     ...Gin crouches down to retrieve coins, the short skirt riding

     recklessly high on her upper thighs.  The two remaining guards

     hurry to help her.  Mac's guard, bystanders, all transfixed by the

     marginal preservation of her modesty.  Noticing the eye-lines all

     around, she confides to the nearest guard...

                               GIN (in Mandarin, helpful)

                     Those are the coins.  These

                     are my legs.

     Unnoticed, Mac is BANGING his wristwatch, which seems to have

     broken.  CLOSE on him now, manipulating a glide point DEVICE on

     the side of the watch, and we RACK FOCUS to see...

     ...one coin.  Inside the rope.  Move.

     As Mac checks to see all eyes are elsewhere, he guides the coin's

     slide slowly, inexorably, to...

     ...ATTACH itself magnetically.  To the steel pedestal.  Beneath the

     Bone's case.  As it does, Mac's watch BEEPS slightly, as we CLOSE

     on it to see...

     ...DATA flickering across its face.

                               MAC (old guy voice)

                     Amanda!  Time for my pills!

     INT. NOODLE SHOP, TAIPEI - DAY

     Gin and Mac at a long communal table, ignored, by Taiwanese couples,

     families, businessmen, chattering loudly all around them.  Gin

     looking down at her bowl, she's barely touched her meal...

                               GIN

                     ...no, I don't think that way.

     Glances up.  Mac is eating heartily, happily.

                               GIN

                     ...and I suppose you do?

                               MAC

                     Get lonely?  Sure, all the time.

                     It's healthy.

     Stuffs his mouth full.  Talking around it...

                               MAC

                     What's unhealthy.  Is denial.

     She's studying him as he eats.  Since he's not looking at her,

     Gin's eyes are thoughtful, appraising.

                               GIN

                     Be real.  you could never see

                     yourself...you know, quitting the

                     game.  Settling...down.

     And he looks up.  Direct to her eyes.  A dead straight, heart-

     stopping look.  Before the wonderful smile.

                               MAC

                     Why, Ginger.  This is so sudden.

     She cuts him a hard look.  Not funny.

     INT. MUSEUM - DAY

     Late afternoon, the place has closed.  Four armed GUARDS,

     accompanied by a museum OFFICIAL, push a large DOLLY across the

     hardwood floor, heels clicking, wheels rumbling softly, into...

     ...the room we've seen.  The dolly stops by the display case of the

     priceless oracle Bone.  The four guards position themselves around

     the triple-paned bulletproof case.  It will be a bitch to lift.

     The official has a key.  He inserts this into the lock of the

     titanium frame which holds the case to the steel pedestal.  And

     as it CLICKS, we...

     SMASH CUT TO...

     INT. NOODLE SHOP - DAY

     Mac's arm rising with noodle-laden chopsticks, the wristwatch

     BEEPING softly.  He drops the chopsticks, rising in one fluid

     motion as Gin does the same, throwing some bills on the table,

     he leads her...

     ...OUT the door, INTO the street, step OFF the curb, turn, DROP

     flat on his back, SLIDE DOWN the gutter, Gin following a split-

     second behind...

     INT. TUNNEL LOADING DOCK

     A train car stands, pulled up to a loading dock.  Two SOLDIERS with

     assault rifles on the train's rear platform, waiting.  Along one

     side of the tracks, a gravel roadway.  An open air Jeep-type

     military vehicle stands empty.  One of our soldiers speaks into a

     walkie-talkie, watching a huge steel DOOR at the entrance to the

     loading dock, which...

     ...OPENS now.  Through it come the four armed museum guards,

     surrounding the dolly which carries the Bone's massive bulletproof

     display case.  The official is with them, and hands paperwork to

     one of the waiting soldiers, as the museum guards LIFT the case,

     and carry it onto the train.

     INT. TUNNEL SHAFT

     An empty stretch of dimly-lit track, somewhere down the line.

     Silent.  PAN up, way up, to...

     ...the shadows of a huge air vent.  Must be vent #1, because two

     FIGURES are crouched there, as close as lovers.  Even we can barely

     make them out, until we CLOSE to hear the hushed...

                               GIN (strapping on a backpack)

                     ...way we can use those in here.

                     I thought I was in charge of

                     this operat...

                               MAC

                     You're in charge of ego and worrying.

                     I'm in charge of keeping you alive.

     He is holding something dull gray and small.  It looks like a trun-

     cated nerf football with one end pointed and the other cut blunt.

                               MAC

                     These are plasma jet.  All the

                     force is directed forward, instead

                     of dissipating in a sphere like a

                     grenade.

     He has four of these.  Gives her three.

                               GIN

                     I don't need th...

                               MAC (whispers)

                     Shut up.

     He reaches out, gently...

                               MAC

                     You don't trust me, you won't get

                     through this.

     Touches her face.

                               MAC

                     Try to adjust to that for three

                     more days.  After July 1...

     Stares in her eyes.

                               MAC

                     ...you'll never have to trust again.

     And smiles.  One more whisper...

                               MAC

                     Something.  To look forward to.

     INT. TUNNEL LOADING DOCK

     The museum guards are back on the landing with the official.  Our

     two soldiers stand facing them from the rear platform of the train

     car, as...

     The train RUMBLES to life.  Ready to go.

     INT. MUSEUM

     Two guards arrive with a hand truck to carry off the empty

     pedestal, which once supported the Bone's case.  One tilts the top

     of the pedestal back, supporting its weight, as the other stoops to

     lift the base, and...

     ...stops.  He sees the coin.  Oddly flat against the pedestal's

     shaft.  He kneels, tries to lift the coin, but the magnet HOLDS it

     fast.  He looks up to his companion.  Then...

     ...PEELS the coin free, the other guard reaches for it, the first

     guard YANKS it away, and it FLIES from his hand, INTO the wall, and

     drops.  As the guards go to look, the coin's back has come away.

     Revealing...

     ...electronics.

     INT. TUNNEL LOADING DOCK

     An ALARM SHRIEKS at a deafening level.  Five museum GUARDS BURST

     through the doorway, LEAP from the landing, pile into the Jeep, and

     BLAST OFF down the gravel roadway after the departed train.

     INT. BARRACKS ENTRANCE

     A much larger landing at the other end of the tunnel, facing back

     the opposite way.  The ALARM SCREAMS here, too, and massive steel

     doors CLANG open, as 25 SOLDIERS with assault rifles SWARM out onto

     the landing, taking up sharpshooter positions, weapons pointing

     back up the track.

     INT. AIR VENT #1

     Mac and Gin crouched in the vent, high above the track, gas masks

     dangle around their necks, magnet paddles from their wrists,

     various objects from their belt loops.  The alarm ECHOES,

     absolutely EAR-SPLITTING.  She leans to shout in his ear...

                               GIN

                     WE HAVE TO ABORT!

     Above the siren, we can now hear the TRAIN coming...

                               MAC

                     HOW DO YOU EXPECT TO MAKE A CAREER

                     OF THIS, IF YOU CAN'T TAKE A LITTLE

                     INCONVENIENCE?

     The train LOUDER, closer, the alarm BLARING...

                               GIN

                     THEY'VE GOT AN 

ARMY

 DOWN TH...

                               MAC

                     I can do this.

     Quietly.  Straight in her eyes.  The train ROARS into view, FLASHES

     beneath them, as he GRABS her wrist and...

     ...JUMPS, HURTLING DOWN, both STRIKING the empty rear platform,

     Gin slipping off, but he HOLDS her fast, SWIPING with his magnet

     which...

     ...CLANKS hard, LOCKS solid.  He PULLS her onto the platform,

     she looks dazed, clinging to him, he tugs her gas mask into place,

     slips on his own, and...

     ...FITS a magnetic DEVICE from his belt loop ONTO the door

     lock, SPINS a dial on the device, which POPS the lack OPEN,

     Mac BURSTING...

     ...THROUGH the door, lobbing a GAS GRENADE at the startled guards,

     who try to whirl and FIRE through the fog of red smoke, two wild

     SHOTS above the rolling Mac, and they are felled by the gas where

     they stand.  Gin races in, falling on her butt, as the car ROCKS

     along the track.  Points OUT the window...

                               GIN (through mask)

                     THERE'S THE NUMBER TWO VENT, ONLY

                     45 SECONDS TO THE THIRD!

     Scrambling to her feet, Mac wheeling toward the Bone.

                               GIN (through mask)

                     TEST THE CASE!

     He THROWS a handful of coins at the glass case, and purple UV BEAMS

     ARC from the glass to FRY the coins in midair.  Mac pulls a dull

     rectangle the size of a cigar box from Gin's backpack, as we

     SMASH CUT to...

     INT. TUNNEL

     The Jeep BLASTING after the train at crazy speed, the four non-

     drivers with weapons at the ready...

     INT. BARRACKS LANDING

     TROOPS FILL the platform, and have spilled onto the tracks, enough

     weapons to dust Butch and Sundance.

     INT. TRAIN

     Mac operating the cigar box which is actually a customized

     OSCILLOSCOPE, with countless KNOBS and a SCREEN which displays

     WAVE PATTERNS.  The machine is emitting SHRILL whistling TONES

     that cut through even the siren.

                               GIN (through mask)

                     TAKE IT TO 30 AND CLIMB!

     Mac SPINS the dials and two overhead light bulbs BLOW.  The glass

     case housing a fire ax SHATTERS.  The Bone's case is untouched.

     SMASH CUT to...

     INT. TUNNEL

     WITH the Jeep, BOMBING around a curve to SEE the train at last.  WE

     OPEN FIRE, accelerating after the train with everything we've got,

     gravel FLYING like shrapnel, and up ahead...

     ...the train's windows BLOW OUT, the tunnel SHOWERED with glass

     fragments.  SMASH CUT...

     INT. TRAIN

     Mac JUICING the box, the deafening TONE competing with the sirens,

     the gunshots, Gin SHRIEKING as she points through a blasted-out

     window...

                               GIN (through mask)

                     THIRD VENT GONE!

     And the Bone's case EXPLODES, Gin WHIRLING away to protect her

     face, as we SMASH CUT to...

     INT. TUNNEL

     The Jeep now ALONGSIDE the rear platform of the train.  The driver

     fighting to hold it steady, as...

     ...the guards begin to CLAMBER over the side, GRASPING for the

     platform's rails, one goes DOWN screaming onto the tracks, but two

     MAKE IT, then a third, they BURST...

     ...INTO the train to see...

     Nothing.  Two groggy, half-conscious soldiers.  Discarded gas

     masks, oscilloscope.  No Mac.  No Gin.  And inside the shattered

     case...

     A chicken bone.  The pack-rat strikes again.

     INT. TUNNEL

     Mac and Gin FLATTENED to the side of the train above the window

     line, held fast by their magnets.  We are on the opposite side from

     the gravel path, so the train screens us from the jeep.  SHOUTING

     above the din...

                               GIN

                     THERE'S THE FOURTH!

     Up ahead an AIR VENT looms, we are HURTLING toward it.  Mac and Gin

     each free one hand, reach into their backpacks for...

                               GIN

                     OUR LAST CHANCE, THE FIFTH IS

                     AT THE BARRACKS!

     ...twin GRAPNEL GUNS, which look like big 9mm pistols, but with a

     blunt, round end.  As we STREAK toward the VENT, Gin lifts her gun,

     SHOOTS at it, a cable-attached PROJECTILE EXPLODING toward the

     target, OPENING in mid-flight to a three-pronged HOOK, which...

     ...FALLS just SHORT, the hook tumbling to CLANG on the tracks, as

     Mac...

     ...FIRES his, the projectile EXPLODING, the hook OPENING and...

     ...BITES into the wall, only four feet from the vent, its cable

     stretching back to the gun in Mac's hand, we're almost there, and

     Mac slips the pistol...

     ...INTO Gin's free hand.

                               GIN

                     WHAT ABOUT YOU?

                               MAC

                     ALLOW US A MOMENT OF CHIVALRY.

     Their eyes meet.  He sees her hesitate to abandon him.

                               MAC

                     FIRST RULE.  SAVE NUMBER ONE.

     They FLASH PAST the vent, Mac RELEASES her magnet, Gin's freed hand

     GRASPING to join the other at the pistol, as she...

     ...ROCKETS up, CATAPULTED back toward the vent by the retractable

     cable, as a RIFLE APPEARS from a window beneath us, taking aim at

     Gin, and Mac...

     KICKS it off line, the shot BOOMING, the guard almost dropping

     the weapon, then SWINGING it back UP, slamming the muzzle directly

     INTO Mac's GROIN, as Mac...

     ...GRASPS the barrel, YANKING it up, SLIPS the shot SCREAMING past

     his head, PULLING the guard half out the window to KICK his face,

     sending him DOWN to the tracks, as we CAREEN around a curve, seeing

     in distance now...

     ...the END of the line, the massive BARRACKS LANDING, the phalanx

     of TROOPS, the fifth and final AIR VENT midway between us.  Mac's

     free hand pulls out...

     ...the lone PLASMA GRENADE he kept for himself, and as we CAREEN

     toward the troops, Mac HEAVES the grenade uptrack, and it...

     ...EXPLODES in a horrifying FIREBALL, which RIPS UP the train

     tracks, COLLAPSING a section of tunnel wall ONTO the gravel path, a

     choking CLOUD of yellow SMOKE filling the tunnel, obscuring

     everything, our train ROCKETING...

     ...TOWARD the flames, nearly AT the metal SUPPORT BEAM which runs

     vertically up to the final air vent, and as the train FLASHES PAST

     it, Mac...

     LUNGES out, SLAMMING both magnets ONTO the support beam, the

     momentum FLATTENING his body fully horizontal like a flag on a

     pole, the train PLUNGING ON without him, as guards shoot blindly

     back from the windows, the jeep PLOWING full tilt INTO the rubble

     of tunnel wall, the train...

     ...DERAILING in a terrifying CRUSH of twisted metal, screams,

     shouts, the smoke and flame everywhere, and we SNAP TO...

     REVERSE ANGLE...the soldiers' POV from the landing, SCATTERING as

     the derailed train HURTLES AT them, INTO them, chaos, until at last

     they see...

     ...above the clearing smoke, near the tunnel ceiling...

     ...Mac CLIMBING deftly up the support beam, magnets CLANKING, hand

     over hand, nearly at the vent, and the shouting troops...

     ...OPEN FIRE, bullets CHEWING UP the tunnel wall, as we SMASH CUT

     TO...

     INT. STORAGE ROOM - DAY

     Silence.  Cluttered, dimly-lit storage room.  Boxes of SHOES reach

     to the ceiling, Gucci, Bruno Magli, the good stuff.  Footsteps

     precede...

     ...a young SALESMAN, tailored, attractive.  He goes right to the

     shelf he needs.  Opens a box.  Takes it and two others.  As his

     steps recede, we PAN UP to...

     ...the ceiling.  The mesh grating, which soundlessly...

     ...slides away.  Gin DROPS lightly, twelve feet to the floor.

     Filthy from her adventure, she quickly unzips her backpack to

     remove...

     ...a sleek Halliburton case.  Opens it.  The Oracle Bone undamaged

     in its cushioned setting.  Steps returning, she is...

     ...OUT of her jumpsuit in a heartbeat, revealing a costly slip of a

     dress, kicks the jump suit under the bottom shelf, as...

     ...the young salesman APPEARS to find her peeking into a shoe box.

     He is startled.  She scowls at him, rubbing the grime from her

     face...

                               GIN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     There you are!  Do you know how

                     filthy this place is?

     Shows her dirty fingers as proof.

                               SALESMAN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Madam, no one is supp...

                               GIN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     I'm looking for dress pumps, I'll

                     need eight pairs.

     Oh.

                               GIN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Unless you're too busy to help me.

                               SALESMAN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Well, no, I...

                               GIN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Come to think of it, I need some

                     dresses for evening...

     Lifts the Halliburton case, slings her pack over her shoulder,

     strides to the doorway.  See the crowded upscale boutique...

                               GIN (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Are you coming?

     Out she goes.  And he follows.  Maybe he's on commission.

     INT. VENT - DAY

     Mac, very much alive, somewhat the worse for wear, crawling through

     a darkened pipe on his belly, toward...

     ...a grating.  Light filters through.  Reaching the screen, he

     squints through it.  Can't see shit.  Listens.  Nothing that rises

     above an ambient wooshing of air in the duct.  He grasps the wires,

     pushes, and...

     ...FALLS straight THROUGH, tumbling ten feet to CRASH LAND in a

     heap.  HEAR feminine SCREAMS before we look up to...

     ...three young WOMEN trying on lingerie, being attended by an older

     SALESWOMAN.  The girls are half-naked and as Mac rises, one THROWS

     a red lace TEDDY in his face.  He peels it off, and still holding

     the garment, calmly tells the saleswoman...

                               MAC (subtitled Mandarin)

                     It's all right, the security cameras

                     behind the mirrors are working again.

     At which the customers SHRIEK, cover themselves all the more, and

     begin screaming at the poor saleswoman.  During which...

                               MAC (subtitled Mandarin)

                     Well.  If everything is in order...

     All four women.  Look at him.

     EXT. LINGERIE SHOP, SHIN KONG MALL - SUNSET

     CLOSE on an entrance, just as Mac comes...

     ...FLYING THROUGH, propelled by two sizeable SECURITY GUARDS, once

     again landing in pieces.  It's a long day.  As Mac clears his head,

     they stand at the doorway with folded arms.  Hoping he wants some

     more.

                               MAC

                     WHAT KIND OF A COUNTRY 

IS

 THIS?  IN

                     BRITAIN, A MAN CAN TRY ON LINGERIE

                     WITHOUT COMPROMISING HIS DIGNITY!

     The bruisers look at each other.  No habla Espanol.

     EXT. KAOHSHING HARBOR, TAIWAN - DUSK

     A super TUGBOAT, engines RUMBLING, ready to pull out.  A woman

     paces the deck.  Every time we see her, she seems more tightly

     wrapped.  At last...

     ...here he comes, stepping briskly from the taxi, striding up the

     gangway, pulling from inside his coat...

     ...the red lace teddy.  He drapes it over her face, and she pulls

     it away, steps into his arms...

     ...her kiss is urgent.  Real.  HOLD on the look in her eyes.  What

     is she thinking?

     He strokes her hair, gently.  Then, goes to look into the

     Halliburton case, which stands by the rail.  As he crouches.  As he

     looks at the Bone...

     She is watching him.  An intensity to her gaze.  More feeling than

     she is comfortable with, which...

     ...disappears completely, as he turns to her.  And when he mimes

     FLINGING the case into the sea...

     She laughs.

     EXT. STATUE SQUARE, HONG KONG - DAY

     CLOSE on a British Petroleum BILLBOARD with a huge DIGITAL CLOCK,

     counting down by seconds...JUNE 29, 1997, 11:32 A.M. - 1 DAY, 12

     HOURS, 27 MINUTES, 48 SECONDS TO:  REUNION WITH CHINA!

     PAN to an AERIAL VIEW of...

     Hong Kong's bustling STATUE SQUARE, the hub of countless feeder

     streets and alleyways, as we ROAM to a SERIES OF SHOTS...

     ...billboards everywhere.  Western businesses that announce WE'LL

     STILL BE HERE FOR YOU.  Others, primarily British, sending

     farewells, gratitude for past patronage.  China-sponsored

     depictions of happy Hong Kong and Chinese citizens, proclaim ONE

     COUNTRY, TWO SYSTEMS.

     ...moving vans, people pushing carts of belongings, shop signs

     advertising blowout inventory clearance sales.  Traffic beyond

     gridlock.  The human ant colony.

     ...incredibly long queues in front of post offices, American

     Express, the imposing glass and steel skyscraper called the HONG

     KONG AND SHANGHAI BANK BUILDING.

     ...large groups of uniformed CHINESE SOLDIERS in the streets.  More

     orderly DEMONSTRATION by anti-China PROTESTERS, their signs say

     MORE DEMOCRACY and FREE HONG KONG, their numbers watched by Chinese

     soldiers, who in turn are watched by British soldiers.

     CLOSE on the square now.  A couple at a sidewalk vendor.  Mac is

     purchasing a t-shirt.  Gin dutifully lifts her arms, and Mac slips

     the garment over her head.  It says CHINA GOT HONG KONG, AND ALL I

     GOT WAS THIS LOUSY T-SHIRT.

     He regards her thoughtfully, and she turns, modeling for him as if

     wearing a Givenchy original.  He approves, lifts the Halliburton

     case, and they move on, strolling, chatting until Mac...

     ...bumps HARD into a Chinese SOLDIER, both men REELING with the

     impact.  The soldier carries an identical HALLIBURTON CASE, and the

     two men set their cases down side by side, as Mac steps forward...

                               MAC (subtitled Mandarin)

                     FUCKING 

HELL

!  WATCH WHERE

                     YOU'RE GOING, MAN!

     No one notices, no one cares.  Gin tugs on Mac's arm, don't get

     involved, dear.  Mac reluctantly steps back.  The soldier glares at

     him.  Then, bends and picks up...

     ...Mac's case.  A parting epithet in Mandarin, and the soldier

     starts off.  Watching him, Mac unobtrusively fingers a concealed...

     ...PISTOL, ready for action.  But keeps watching, as within a few

     yards, the soldier...

     ...stops.  Opens the case.  Checks out the Oracle Bone, right there

     in the middle of the square.  Mac and Gin watching across the

     distance, with hair-trigger keenness.  At last the soldier CLOSES

     the case...

     ...walks back to us.

                               SOLDIER (subtitled Mandarin)

                     I believe I took your case.

     Handing it to Mac, he leans forward, and in low, aecented

     English...

                               SOLDIER

                     21 Old Peak Road.  In 45 minutes.

     Picks up his own case.  And is gone.

     EXT. MANSION, VICTORIA PEAK - DAY

     A vintage Aston Martin pulls up to a spectacular gated MANSION.

     Sparkling white, it is a blend of Edwardian and Regency.  Gin is

     driving, speaks into the voice box, and the gate swings open.  As

     they pull up the crushed rock driveway...

     ...a BUTLER appears, as British as the architecture.  Climbing from

     the car, Mac has the Halliburton case.

                               BUTLER

                     Will you please come this way?

     And leads them around the side of the house.  They walk slowly, a

     distance behind the butler, taking everything in.

                               MAC

                     I like this.

     His voice is strong, calm.  No hint of a smile.

                               GIN

                     You like wha...

                               MAC

                     Not being told what the fuck

                     we're doing.

     She looks equally serious.  Just more tense.

                               GIN

                     You're on a 'need to know' basis.

                     You'll get each step in time to

                     execute, I thought you agreed to

                     those condit...

                               MAC (quietly)

                     I like your not trusting me.

                     Because it frees me to do

                     the same.

     They come upon the spacious GROUNDS behind the mansion.  A

     breathtaking view down the slope of Victoria Peak to Hong Kong and

     the harbor.  Kowloon across the water.

                               GIN

                     I trust you.  I only need to...

                               MAC

                     ...remain in control.

     They pass a towering row of perfect ROSEBUSHES.  Mac SNAPS OFF a

     giant blossom.

                               MAC

                     Which is a sign of weakness.

     And hands it to her.  Their eyes meet.

                               MAC

                     I like that, too.

     At the edge of the garden, above the commanding view, a luncheon

     TABLE has been set.  Spread with delcacies.  Two SERVANTS attend,

     also British.

     Only the host is seated.  He does not rise.

                               GIN

                     Colonel

     Col. Qiu glances up from his meal.  Green PLA uniform, absurdly

     decorated, wraparound Gautier sunglasses.  We recognize him as the

     man who took Gin's call in his Mercedes in Tienanmen Square.  The

     man who accompanied the poor Minister of Finance to the ophthal-

     mologist.

                               QIU

                     You look lovely, Ginger.  Is

                     the rose for me?

                               GIN

                     Of course.

     And leans prettily.  To fasten it in the buttonhole of his lapel.

                               GIN

                     Col. Qiu Lai Chuen, this is

                     Andrew MacDougal.

     Hearing his real name, Mac cuts her a look.

                               GIN

                     Real names here, darling.  The

                     Colonel and I have every incentive

                     to keep each other's secrets.

     And she sits.  Close to Qiu.  Mac looks around at the property,

     the view.

                               QIU

                     Like the place, Andy?

                               MAC

                     Please.  Mr. MacDougal will do.

     The Colonel smiles.  First time.  Like an alligator.  Mac notices

     that the tablecloth is actually...

     ...a Union Jack.  He fingers the flag.

                               QIU

                     This way.  Doesn't matter if we

                     spill.

                               MAC

                     My sentiments exactly.

     He sits.

                               QIU

                     This place was a gift.  From

                     its former owner.  A Brit whose

                     business will now happily continue

                     to function.  Perhaps...even expand.

                               MAC (spreading his napkin)

                     Planning to spend much time here?

                               QIU

                     Tho it has required many sacrifices.

                               GIN

                     The Colonel has divorced his

                     wife.  To facilitate the necessary

                     entertaining of Western women.

                               QIU

                     Tho some are more entertaining

                     than others.

     And runs the back of his knuckles up the length of Gin's bare arm.

                               MAC

                     Colonel.  You are touching the woman

                     I love...

     Which brings Qiu's eyes over.  Really?

                               MAC

                     From time to time.

     And pulls up the Halliburton case.  Handing it across the table.

     As Qiu takes the case in his lap, opens it...

                               QIU

                     You're a Scot.  Would you like

                     some 25-year-old Macallan?

                               MAC

                     Sure, I'll take a case.

     Qiu glances across the lawn to the butler, who stands behind the

     bar trolley.  As the drinks are prepared, the Colonel studies the

     Bone.

                               GIN

                     The Colonel told his Minister

                     of Culture that he could mount

                     a surgical raid to liberate this

                     treasure from Taiwan.

                               MAC

                     Ah.  How much was the Minister

                     told the raid would cost?

                               QIU (not looking up)

                     Counting equipment, personnel,

                     bribes, an even fifty million

                     American.  All in.

                               MAC

                     Which you can now keep.

     The drinks arrive.

                               QIU

                     He would have paid twice that.

                     But my needs are modest.

     And lifts from beneath the table, a leather POUCH.

                               QIU

                     Unlike.  The woman you love.

                     From time to time.

     Drops it into Gin's lap.  She opens the pouch to reveal...

     ...goggles.  Like one would wear in a tanning salon.  Only these

     are flesh-colored with one small hole in the center of each lens.

     Slightly larger than the size of a pupil.

     She slips them on.  A bright smile.

                               GIN

                     How do I look, honey?

     And Mac smiles.  In return.

                               MAC

                     Like a woman.  Of mystery.

     INT. SUITE, PENINSULA HOTEL - LATE NIGHT

     Glass doors open WIDE to a terrace which overlooks Kowloon, the

     harbor, Hong Kong Island beyond.  More lights than stars in heaven.

     And speaking of heaven...

     ...the SOUNDS of lovemaking are fierce, feral, an urgent rhythm,

     part comic, part wondrous, and mostly, arousing enough to make us

     PAN TO...

     ...lovemaking in silhouette.  This is the lovemaking of tigers,

     mesmerizing to watch, ferocious enough to inspire envy, and

     somehow...

     ...tender enough.  To suggest real love.

     LATER...Mac and Gin sit before the open terrace.  There is wine and

     food and abandoned clothing all around them.  She has her pack

     drawn near.  And Qiu's leather pouch.  She removes the goggles...

     This is the moment.

                               GIN

                     In the Hong Kong and Shanghai

                     Bank Building.  Is a room with

                     two computers.  One for you.

                     And one for me.

                               MAC

                     Glad I have a function, here.

                               GIN

                     The room is a vault on the 14th

                     floor.  Access codes to that room

                     are changed daily, computer pass-

                     words on the hour, 

but

...

     But.  She is electric, more alive than he's ever seen her.

                               GIN

Four

 men in the 

world

.  Don't 

need

                     codes.  Their retinas will scan to

                     unlock everything.  One of these is

                     China's Minister of Finance.

     She lifts the goggles...

                               MAC

                     And his retinal plate is in there.

     Yep.

                               MAC

                     Our trade for the great train

                     robbery.  All right, let's say

                     we're in the door.  Now what?

     From her pack, she pulls a slender black rectangle.  Opens it to

     reveal a shiny metallic DISC.

                               GIN

                     Hong Kong has a huge portion of its

                     holdings invested in foreign banks.

                     In hundreds of separate accounts...

     Holds up the metallic disc.

                               GIN

                     This CD ROM is programmed to send,

                     instantaneously, 

thousands

 of instruc-

                     tions, 

with

 all necessary confirmation

                     codes, to transfer reasonably modest

                     sums 

out

 of those accounts....

                               MAC

                     Modest.

                               GIN

                     Two or three million at a crack,

                     in odd numbers.  Total, eight

                     billion.  And change.

                               MAC

                     And you've set up a laundry.

                               GIN

                     Every wire transfer gets rocketed

                     through a series of multiple switches,

                     Austria, Uruguay, Antigua, The Channel

                     Islands, the Caymans...

                               MAC (quietly)

                     Seychelles?

                               GIN (beat)

                     I left that out.

                               MAC

                     You're forgiven.

                               GIN

                     Thank you.  As soon as each deposit

                     lands somewhere, it's shot somewhere

                     else, til the 

Mafia

 couldn't find it.

                               MAC

                     But those 

first

 instructions,

                     transferring the 8 billion dollars.

                     They're 

recorded

 in the main computer.

     She waggles the disc.

                               GIN

                     Nope.  The CD instructs the computer

                     to 

erase

 the real transactions.

                     And replace them in its memory

                     with an innocuous loan coded XJ6.

                     Little homage to Limeyland, there.

                               MAC

                     Dearest.  The 

accounts

 won't

                     reconcile.

     She waggles the disc.  Again.

                               GIN

                     Wrong.  The CD instructs the computer

                     to 

over-report

 all account totals

                     forever, in the exact amounts we've

                     lifted.  So the Chinese think the

                     money's still there.

     On this one.  He has to smile.

                               MAC

                     The money.  Is still.  Missing.

                               GIN

                     Sure, the foreign banks know

                     they sent out some money.  But

                     they think Hong Kong knows it,

                     too.  And since we're leaving

                     plenty 

in

 every account...

                               MAC

                     The shit doesn't splatter.  Until

                     the first account runs dry.

     Exactly.

                               GIN

                     And 

then

.  Comes the really

brilliant

 part of the whole

                     thing!

                               MAC

                     I was hoping there'd be one.

     He settles back.  Looks at her.

                               GIN

                     Admit it, so far you're

                     blown away.

     Well...

                               MAC

                     It does sound like the beginning

                     of a beautiful friendship.

     And his fingers reach out...

                               MAC

                     Pity it will be over.  In

                     21 hours.

     Touch her hair.  Her face.  She swallows.  A raw moment.  A

     hoarse...

                               GIN

                     Bet you say that.  To all the

                     one-night-stands.

     But he's just staring in her eyes.  The look pins her.  She can't

     wriggle off.  A murmured...

                               MAC

                     No, ma'am...

     He leans to her...

                               MAC

                     Only the best of them.

     They kiss.

     EXT. STATUE SQUARE - ROUND MIDNIGHT

     CLOSE on the British Petroleum billboard, where the countdown CLOCK

     says...JUNE 30, 1997, 11:41 P.M., 0 DAYS, 0 HOURS, 18 MINUTES, 51

     SECONDS TO:  REUNION WITH CHINA!

     The square is beyond BEDLAM.  Times Square looks deserted New

     Year's Eve compared to this carnival CRUSH of humanity, rock and

     rolling as if reunion with China was the doorway to Paradise.

     Singing, chanting, screaming, dancing, music and booze everywhere,

     firecrackers exploding, soldiers and civilians, tycoons and

     hookers, tourists and peddlers and Party members and homeless,

     going absolutely nuts.

     Who knows.  Could be the last party.  Ever.

     WHIP PAN to the crowded plaza in front of the towering glass-and-

     steel headquarters of the HONG KONG AND SHANGHAI BANK.

     ZOOM to focus on our smashing couple in evening wear, Gin with a

     large beaded shoulder bag.  Mac presents an invitation to a PLA

     soldier, who admits them into...

     INT. PUBLIC LOBBY, HONG KONG AND SHANGHAI BANK

     ...a VIP party going full blast in the lobby of this truly

     breathtaking structure.  A central ATRIUM rises 47 floors, creating

     a soaring clear core, around which the offices and working spaces

     are ringed.  The view straight up is interrupted only at three

     well-spaced levels, where thick CANOPIES of glass, stitched

     together with spidery skeletons of steel, SPAN the open core.

     Mac looks up...

     ...at the balcony railings surrounding the atrium, the revelers

     have been granted access to the lower five floors.  Above these,

     all is empty.

                               MAC

                     Nice of the Colonel to provide an

                     invitation...

     She is guiding him toward one of the multiple hors d'oeuvre

     stations.  Half the celebrants seem to be armed PLA soldiers, many

     with rifles slung boldly across their shoulders.

                               GIN

                     Well, I promised him a bonus.

                     Five million.  Comes out of

                     your share.

                               MAC

                     ...long as I don't have to have

                     sex with him.

     Mac loads up on six hors d'oeuvres, piling them on a napkin, as

     she takes two flutes of champagne.  They step away from the mob

     toward a potted plant near the wall, and Mac...

     ...drops his snacks with a SPLAT.  Shit.  Bending to clean the

     mess, he slips from his waistband a flat CIRCUIT BOARD with a

     bank logo and a three-pronged plug.  In a single motion, he plugs

     it INTO a socket concealed by the pot, scoops up his canapes,

     and we CUT TO...

     INT. SURVEILLANCE ROOM

     Three SECURITY OFFICERS blink, as ALL FIFTY monitor screens go

     HAYWIRE at once.  The images compressed to a blur of lines between

     a series of diagonal SLACK BARS that slash across the screens.  The

     way your TV acts when the horizontal hold goes out.  They can't

     believe it.

     Stumped, they start slamming buttons, flipping switches, jabbering

     to each other.  Now the images begin to ROLL vertically, as if in

     response to their attempts at adjustment.

     Welcome to the world of high tech.

     INT. ELEVATOR BANK

     Mac and Gin wait with a party of older Brits, who've had plenty

     to drink and are carrying more.  Two armed soldiers flank the

     elevators.  A car arrives.  As the Brits enter...

                               MAC (politely)

                     We'll take the next one.

     Waiting, calmly.  Mac smiles at a soldier.

                               MAC (subtitled Mandarin)

                     What time tomorrow do the tanks

                     roll in?

     The guy LAUGHS.  An elevator arrives.  Gin sipping champagne as

     they enter.

     The doors CLOSE.  They are alone.  The panel has floors 1 through

     5 lit.  The other numbers, 6-10 and 16-47, are dark.  There are NO

     numbers 11-15.

     Mac pulls from his pocket a small flat DEVICE, not much thicker

     than a credit card, with a window and a series of LED lights

     on its face.  He fits it into a SLOT beside a black glass PLATE

     on the elevator panel.  Immediately, the LEDs scramble, all RED,

     numbers FLASH across the card's window, as the device begins

     to lock on the elevator code.  In sequence, the LEDs turn GREEN,

     and...

     ...the glass plate LIGHTS, announcing in Kanji and English...ACCES

     GRANTED TO FLOORS 11, 12, 14, 15.  Mac presses the lit number 14.

     The elevator RISES.  He looks over at her.  She is tight enough

     to snap.  We can feel her heart racing from here.

                               MAC

                     So all that time, sitting at your

                     computers.  All the research, the

                     access codes your job allowed you

                     to steal, floor plans, schematics...

                     setting up all your bank accounts...

     She looks irritated.  He is smiling, gently.

                               MAC

                     Years of work, comes down to....

                               (checks his watch)

                     ...six minutes.  Don't be

                     nervous.  Easy come, easy go.

     She looks away.  The elevator stops.

                               MAC

                     Your share prob'ly works out

                     to, what?  Dollar and a quarter

                     an hour?

     Me laughs.  The door opens.  She is pissed off.

                               GIN

                     What's your point?

                               MAC (very real)

                     That I like you, Ginger.

     Now they're staring at each other.  An open elevator door.  An

     empty dim hallway.  They see only each other.

                               MAC

                     The dedication, the skill,

                     the guts...

     He holds out the crook of his arm.  As a gentleman escorts a lady.

                               MAC

                     I'm going to see you get

                     everything you deserve.

     Her eyes flicker on that.  So he grins...

                               MAC

                     Woman.  If you can't have

                     fun, right now.  You're in

                     the wrong business.

     She looks in his eyes.  Her body seems to relax, just a little.

     She takes his arm.

     INT. 14TH FLOOR

     CLOSE on a KEYPAD.  Next to it, a mirrored PLATE with two

     APERTURES, set apart the distance of human eyes.  Gin's goggled

     face DROPS into frame, reflected in the mirrored surface.  She

     fits her eyes to the apertures...

                               GIN (whispers)

                     Open.  Sesame.

     A red scanning light APPEARS.  Tracks vertically.  BEEPS.  Tracks

     horizontally.  And from somewhere...

     ...a soft CLICK.  PULL BACK now, to see...

     They stand at what seems the door to a BANK VAULT.  Round,

     gigantic, heavy steel.  Bolts eyerywhere.  Mac reaches to GRASP

     the handle, and...

     CLANG.  The door swings OPEN.  They stare at the inner sanctum...

     ...a windowless ROOM.  Dim, eerie fluorescence.  A blast of white

     noise from the elaborate air-cooling system.  Two large MAINFRAME

     COMPUTERS face each other from opposite walls, desks and work

     stations with PC monitors filling the space between.  As Mac closes

     the vault door behind them...

     ...Gin goes quickly to the smaller mainframe.  Pulls the high-

     resolution monitor around on its adjustable arm.  The screensaver

     displays Guernsey cows swimming among tropical fish.  She hits a

     key.  The screen saver replaced by, WELCOME.  AUTHORIZATION MODE

     PLEASE.  Two boxes for PASSWORD and SCAN.  She hits SCAN.  A

     plastic shield RISES, revealing...

     ...the mirrored PLATE, the tiny APERTURES.  Gin leans to fit her

     goggled eyes in place.  The red scanning light.  Vertical track.

     BEEP.  Horizontal track.  And the monitor announces...WELCOME

     MINISTER FEIHONG.  Gin takes off the goggles, and...

     ...THROWS them across the room to Mac at the larger mainframe.  As

     he repeats the scanning process, Gin is loading the precious CD-ROM

     into her mainframe's driver.  Watches the screen...

                               GIN

                     Uploading.  And you've got...

                     two minutes, fifty seconds.

     WITH Mac now.  Typing the words CONTROL PANEL.  The screen now

     shows icons for time setting, and he clicks his mouse to create a

     CLOCK in the center of the screen, labeled LOCAL TIME, and reading

     11:57:19, changing with each second that passes...

                               MAC

                     So let's see.  Across town at

                     the British Consulate...

     INTERCUT...frenzied activity in a large war room filled with

     computers, wall screens, every worker functioning at top speed...

     CONTINUE to hear Mac over this...

                               MAC (V.O.)

                     ...everyone is working frantically

                     to complete transactions before

                     they go off-line at midnight.

     CUT BACK to Mac in the vault.  He clicks his mouse to create a

     clock at the LEFT of the screen, labeled BRITISH TERMINAL TIME.

     It is, of course, showing the same time as the local clock.

                               MAC

                     ...then, deep in the high-tech

                     bowels of the Bank of China

                     Building, just across the square...

     INTERCUT...an even larger war room, even better staffed and

     equipped.  Everyone...doing...nothing.  Staring at blank monitors

     and wall screens.

                               MAC (V.O.)

                     ...the Chinese are sitting on

                     their thumbs, waiting to come

                     on-line at midnight.

     CUT BACK to Mac in the vault.  He clicks his mouse to create

     another clock at the RIGHT of the screen, labeled CHINA TERMINAL

     TIME.  Shows the same time as the other clocks.  11:58:22.

                               MAC

                     I feel for these boys.  Let's

                     give them a breather, hmmn?

     CLICKS the mouse, and the BRITISH TERMINAL TIME begins FLASHING.

                               MAC

                     We'll let the Brits go off-line

                     4 seconds early.

     As the flashing clock reaches 11:58:30, and Mac HITS the key four

     times, advancing the British clock to 34 seconds, four seconds

later

 than the others.

                               MAC

                     And we'll give our new Chinese

                     overlords 4 extra seconds of rest

                     before they have to go on-line.

     As the local and Chinese clocks reach 40 seconds, Mac HITS the key

     four times, regressing the Chinese clock back to 36 seconds.

     We watch all three clocks, clicking down the last moments of

     British rule.  The British clock is 4 seconds FAST, the Chinese

     clock 4 seconds SLOW.

                               MAC

                     Playing God here, Ginger.  We've

                     created 8 seconds that do not

                     exist, anywhere but in this room.

     LOCAL TIME...11:59:00.  One minute to midnight.

                               MAC

                     8 seconds, where no one is on-line

                     but your little CD-Rom.

     He turns around.  Her eyes are waiting.  Across the room.

                               MAC

                     And when, eventually, everyone

                     discovers what transaction XJ6

                     was 

really

 about...

                               GIN

                     China will think it happened

before

 midnight.  Britain will

                     swear it happened 

after

 midnight...

                               MAC

                     They'll each be positive.  The

                     other guy.  Did it.

     Mac sighs.  This is a sad thing.

                               MAC

                     Liable to be an ugly international

                     incident.

     She squints across at his clock.

                               GIN

                     Britain off-line in 18 seconds.

                     We're bulletproof.

     His smile returns.  Bittersweet and real...

                               MAC

                     Baby girl.  Nothing.  Is

                     bulletproof.  Ever.

     The look holds.  He turns back to his screen.  She lingers on him

     for an instant.  Then, back to the mainframe, finger poised above

     her ENTER key...

                               MAC

                     Britain goes bye-bye in 6...

                     5...4...3.

     INTERCUT...The British Consulate.  All screens go DARK.  A logo

     APPEARS of a POPPING Champagne BOTTLE, whose spray forms a Union

     Jack twined with a PRC flag, everyone SHOUTS, cheers or curses, and

     we SMASH CUT...

     BACK to Gin...striking ENTER, the screen flashing TRANSACTIONS XJ6

     PROCESSING.

                               GIN (softly)

                     Jesus God, it's going through.

                               MAC (watching his clocks)

                     Hong Kong midnight, happy new year.

                     Except at China Bank.

                               GIN (to her screen)

                     C'mon, c'mon...

     Her screen flashes TRANSACTIONS XJ6 COMPLETED, hear her SHRIEK of

     ecstasy, as we...

     INTERCUT...Bank of China where dark screens suddenly LIGHT with the

     same stupid PARTY LOGO.  Only nobody cheers.  They just get to

     work.

     BACK TO the vault...

                               MAC

                     Feel like a nightcap?

     But across the way, Gin is JAMMING a button.  Again.  Again.

                               GIN

                     The CD won't come out of

                     the driver.

     Houston.  We have a problem.

                               MAC

                     Relax, don't jam it...

                               GIN (jamming it)

FUCKING

 THING!!

     He crosses the room.  She's rummaging on a nearby desk, finds a

     LETTER OPENER.

                               MAC

                     Don't panic, now, there's no rush...

                               GIN

                     We can't leave it IN THERE, it's

                     got all our 

accounts

, everything

                     that can NAIL us to a goddam 

CROSS

!!

     She's fitting the letter opener INTO the narrow slot above the lid

     of the driver.

                               MAC

                     Easy with that, there's no ru...

     WHOOP!  WHOOP!  WHOOP!  WHOOP!  Every SIREN in the skyscraper is

     SHRIEKING, lights are FLASHING CRIMSON, Gin's screen says SECURITY

     BREACH in a selection of languages.

     Gin just staring at it.

                               GIN

                     There's a rush.

     The sirens are EAR-SPLITTING.  We know that elsewhere in this

     building, all hell must be breaking loose.  Gin is YANKING Mac's

     arm out of the socket...

                               GIN

                     LET'S MOVE IT, WHAT ARE YOU

                     WAITING F...

                               MAC

                     The disc.  Is still in there.

     Yeh.  She stares at it.  Really scared.

                               GIN

                     We can't help it, we...we've

                     gotta...

     He stares at her.  In one motion, he SNATCHES a stapler from the

     desk and SMASHES the driver with all his strength.

     It pops open.  Calmly, he plucks her CD from the tray.  She mouths

     a barely audible...

                               GIN

                     What a guy.

     But just as she's about to bolt...he holds up one hand.  Slips

     another CD from his pocket.  We see the words KENNY G.

                               MAC

                     Was wondering where to leave

                     this...

     Pops it IN the drive.  SLAMS it shut.

                               MAC (quietly)

                     Time to go.

     INT. CORRIDOR

     Mac and Gin RUNNING full tilt through the siren BLARE, turning a

     corner to see ahead...

     ...the balcony railing, the building's empty central CORE.  Mac

     BOLTS straight TOWARD it, Gin sprinting to follow, lungs pounding,

     they reach the railing, looking DOWN to see...

     Hysteria, unimaginable chaos.  Soldiers, black-tie partygoers,

     SCRAMBLING in all directions, looking to his left Mac sees...

     ...the bank of ELEVATORS, soldiers POURING in, some cars already

     RISING, fourth floor, fifth.  Now he looks directly BELOW, where...

     ...soldiers are POUNDING up the metal service staircase, the front

     rank almost at the third floor.  In the lobby, some faces look up

     to see us, but no one is shooting.

                               GIN

                     They don't know we're the

                     bad guys.

     He PLUNGES his hand into her shoulder bag...

                               MAC

                     Time they find out.

     Pulls OUT two PLASMA GRENADES, and FLINGS one toward the elevator

     cables three floors down and it...

     ...EXPLODES in a horrifying FIREBALL, causing PANDEMONIUM in the

     lobby below, the elevator cables BLOWN AWAY, cars PLUNGING, the

     yellow smoke momentarily screening us from the soldiers far below,

     and Mac HURLS the second grenade...

     ...STRAIGHT DOWN and the fireball WIPES OUT the staircase, a huge

     section of ninth floor landing RAINING down on the lobby.

                               GIN

                     Okay.  How do we get down?

                               MAC

                     Down?  I never liked down.

     Grabs her hand and they RACE to the staircase, as smoke BILLOWS

     everywhere below.  UP they go, two stairs at a time, the lowest

     glass-and-spiderweb-steel CANOPY is three floors above us, the

     cacophany of SHOUTS below is like an amplified insane asylum.

     He is dragging her now, up, up, BULLETS are flying blind through

     the smoke, CHEWING up metal and glass all around us, up, up, and

     as the smoke at last clears, they have reached...

     ...the canopy floor.  They can see the army down below.  Clutching

     her hand, Mac leads her OVER the railing, ONTO the canopy itself,

     and together they RUN...

     ...straight ACROSS the heavy glass toward the far side of the

     building, like space-walking above the throng 150 feet below,

     BULLETS now TRACING their path from beneath, SLAMMING OFF the

     underside of the bulletproof canopy, Gin SHRIEKING with fright

     as they go.  We see ahead...

     ...three EXECUTIVE ELEVATORS beginning to climb the far wall.

     These are glass-enclosed tubes, all filled with soldiers, the car

     in the lead already at the tenth floor.  Mac keeps running straight

     TOWARD them.

                               GIN (out of breath)

                     WE'VE GOT ONE MORE GRENADE!

                               MAC (not)

                     SAVE IT FOR A RAINY DAY!

     They make it to the edge of the canopy, the lead elevator only two

     floors below them.  We can see the soldiers through the glass.  Mac

     GRASPS her hand, and as the car nears our level...

                               MAC

                     You can do this.

     They LEAP across five feet of open air to...

     ...LAND squarely on the car's metal roof, Mac WRAPPING his free arm

     AROUND the cable, and UP we go.  The ant colony below us receding

     fast.

     Gin is hanging onto the cable, petrified.  Mac is looking up toward

     the roof.

                               GIN

                     Okay, now what?

                               MAC (absently)

                     Shut up.  You're on a 'need-to-

                     know' basis.

                               GIN

                     Mac, I'm sorry.

     He looks at her.  Just now, she seems more miserable than afraid.

                               GIN

                     Turns out, I'm a screw-up.

     He doesn't smile.  Passing the third canopy.

                               MAC

                     Well.  Something to be said for

                     being self-aware.

     Looks back up.  Forty-first floor.  Six to go.

                               MAC

                     May I have the last grenade, dear.

                     It's about to rain.

     She blinks.  Huh?  So he reaches into her bag, pulls out the

     grenade, and THROWS it...

     ...STRAIGHT up.  The roof above them EXPLODES in a FIREBALL, and

     SHIELDS her body against the wall of their shaft, as a huge SECTION

     of roof comes RAINING down.  We watch as it...

     ...CRASHES through the upper canopy, TONS of roof and glass

     PLUNGING to...

     ...BLAST through the middle canopy, everyone below SCRAMBLING for

     shelter, as the whole shebang...

     ...EXPLODES through the lowest canopy.  Gin can only GAPE at the

     incredible display.  Mouthing a silent WOW.

     They've passed the second canopy, thirty-sixth floor.  Still

     climbing.  The other two elevators maybe five floors below us.

                               MAC

                     You see, banking 

will

 be more

                     democratic under China.

     She looks to him.

                               MAC

                     Well.  No more glass ceiling.

     The elevator car has STOPPED.  We are at the roof.  The soldiers

     are in the car beneath our feet, nowhere to get out.  Above our

     heads.

     ...the last few feet of elevator cable.  And starry sky, where our

     patch of roof used to be.

                               MAC

                     How refreshing.  The night air.

     He begins to shimmy up the few feet of cable.  At the top, he

     reaches out with one hand toward the lip of the remaining roof,

     GRABS it, LUNGES with his free hand, and...

     ...DANGLING 47 floors, he pulls himself UP, swings ONTO the roof.

     Reaches back down.  She is only twelve feet below him.  Frozen with

     fear.

                               GIN

                     I can't do this.

                               MAC

                     You can.  If I say so.

     She stares up at his eyes.  He smiles.

                               MAC

                     If you stay.  You'll have to pay

                     for the damage...

     She looks down at the mess below.

     And starts to climb the cable.  Not so easy in a ball gown, but the

     adrenaline is pumping.  Gets to the top.  Here's the hard part.

     One hand reaches out...

     ...GRABS his.  She lets GO.  And she is DANGLING in space.

                               MAC

                     Now that split.  Did we say

                     60-40?

     And with all his strength, hauls her up onto...

     ...the roof.  Two-thirds of it remain.  At the far edge, a gigantic

     MAINTENANCE CRANE, itself two stories high.  But between here and

     the crane...

     ...a HELICOPTER.  Big and beautifUl and empty.  She looks like

     she's seen God.  Mac starts to jog toward it, she runs to follow

     but sees him go...

     ...straight PAST the chopper.

                               GIN

                     HEY!

     He turns back.

     She points to the copter.  It's over here.

                               MAC

                     Got the keys?

     Oh.

                               GIN

                     I thought you could...hot-wire

                     stuff?

     Guess not.

                               MAC

                     They fix those things so you

                     can't steal them...

     And keeps walking.  Toward the monster CRANE.

                               MAC

                     These, they're not so worried.

     Moving fast, he points off to his right.  Her eyes follow a

     long CABLE, leading from the arm of the crane, across the roof,

     attaching by a huge HOOK to a massive WRECKING BALL.

                               MAC

                     Go grab that hook.

     He reaches the crane's cab.  Turns back to see she hasn't moved.

                               MAC

                     Let me rephrase that.  

Run

                     and grab that hook.  Or 

die

...

     Got it?  She takes off running.  He hops IN the cab.  PUSHES the

     start button.  It rumbles to life.  Tests some levers...

                               GIN (O.S.)

                     SHIT!  DON'T 

DO

 THAT!

     He turns to see that he's tightened the cable, pulling her ball six

     feet in the AIR.  She clings to the hook with a true death grip.

     He lowers her ball to the roof.  Getting the hang of it.

                               MAC

                     This only works if you shut

                     your eyes.

     Which makes her eyes BUG OUT.

                               GIN

                     You're not gonna lower me over

                     the side.

                               MAC

                     Of course not.  Now close baby

                     eyes...

                               (she won't)

                     Suit yourself.

     He THROWS a lever and the crane's arm begins to SWING in a circle,

     finally taking the ball WITH it, and as she SCREAMS, Mac...

     ...POUNCES out of the cab, RACING along the edge of the roof, NOT

     toward the ball which is sweeping the hysterical Gin in a widening

     ARC, but toward the point where he thinks the ball will clear the

     edge, and JUST as it does, he...

     ...LEAPS aboard, throwing one arm around the hook, the other around

     her, and they go...

     ...OVER the side, WHOOSHING DOWN in a gigantic, every-increasing

     LOOP, as the endless steel cable UNWINDS from its huge drum like a

     fishing reel hooked onto a killer whale.

                               GIN

                     OH NOOOOOOOOOO....

     The ride no theme park could insure, SWOOPING out ACROSS the

     skyline, DROPPING like an anvil, as the cable UNSPOOLS hundreds of

     feet, nothing but NOTHING for miles below them, Gin grabbing a

     breath to SHRIEK her guts out, as the monstrous pendulum reaches

     its max, begins to slow toward that one nauseating motionless

     instant...

                               MAC

                     Let go NOW!!

     He YANKS her loose, and they drop...

     ...four feet.  The ball SWINGS OFF lnto space to some unknown

     mayhem.  Clutching Mac, Gin looks WAY down to the street, and

     realizes they are standing on...

     ...a rooftop.  Quiet, safe.  Alone.

                               MAC

                     Planning.

     She WHIPS around, GLARING death at his eyes.

                               MAC

                     And dumb luck.

     She COLLAPSES in his arms, every muscle trembling in spasm,

     sobbing...

                               GIN

                     God, I hate you.

     He holds her tenderly.  Kisses the top of her head.

                               MAC (softly)

                     Good.  I hate you, too.

     EXT. NATHAN ROAD - EARLY MORNING

     WITH Gin in a soft brunette wig, walking briskly, light carry-all

     across her shoulder.  Very early, even the busiest street in the

     world is less than that at this hour.  Up ahead...

     ...Tsimshatsui Station, a tall man with a tourist shopping bag,

     leaning casually against a pole.  Talking into a cellular.

     As she approaches, Mac doesn't seem to notice, but she can now hear

     his conversation...

                               MAC (into phone)

                     ...if I can't have my usual

                     suite, I'll take my business

                     to the Bristol, simple as that.

     He sees her now.  Smiles small.

                               MAC (into phone)

                     ...why indeed should I be more

                     loyal to you than you've been to

                     me?  Think it over.

     SNAPS the phone shut.

                               MAC

                     You ran your calls.

     She did.  She is frankly exhilarated.

                               GIN

All

 the transactions, 

all

 the

                     transfers.  It's a miracle.

                               MAC

                     Why?  The CD erased the trans-

                     actions, all accounts seem in

                     order.  It looks like the thieves

                     were stopped in time.

     She sighs.  It 

is

 a miracle.

                               GIN

                     The Colonel says police have

                     nothing.  A man in black-tie, a

                     blonde in a gown.  The elevator

                     guards saw faces, but no mug shots

                     to ID.  I think it's over.

     Mac's smile.  Bittersweet affection.

                               MAC

                     Except it never is, really.

                     Quite.  Over.

     She smiles.  It is easy, but dazzling.  Atypically soft.

                               GIN

                     Well, one hopes not.  The Bristol,

                     huh?  In...Paris?

     Ah.

                               MAC

                     You're not going back to Mr. Cruz,

                     and the nine-to-five?

                               GIN

                     Not hardly.  I've arranged to be

                     killed in a car crash.  On Taipei.

                     Amazing how little it costs.

                               MAC

                     Well.  You want to watch those

                     pennies.

     She takes a breath.  Scared, in an excited way...

                               GIN

                     I could arrange for two.  In that

                     crash.

     His smile back.

     He looks at his watch.  Takes her hand.  Leads her to the subway

     steps.

                               MAC

                     You know, for a bitch.  You can

                     be awfully sweet.

                               GIN

                     Woman of mystery.  What do you say?

                     I like the Bristol, just fine.

                     mean, it's not the Ritz...

                               MAC

                     You know, all night I've been

                     wrestling with something...

                               GIN

                     Not the most flattering way to

                     put it.

     He takes his big tourist shopping bag.  Puts it in her hand.

                               MAC

                     I've changed your travel plans.

     They are descending now.  Into the vast underground train station.

                               GIN

                     Mine.

                               MAC

                     Instead of taking the subway to

                     the airport, you change at Jordan

                     Station for Kowloon Tong.  Got that?

     Got that?

                               MAC

                     Jordan is only 90 seconds up the

                     line.  Like a wire transfer, you're

                     gone.  Vanished.

     He holds up a silencing finger.  Listen to me.

                               MAC

                     In this bag are passports,

                     tickets, papers.  An amber wig, a

                     good one.  A dress you can slip on

                     in five seconds.

     Her eyes moving over his face.  What is this?

                               MAC

                     You're on a tight connection to

                     the Trans-Siberian Express, be in

                     Europe in a week.

                               GIN

                     Mac, wh...

                               MAC

                     Shhh.  You always talk too much.

     They're at the booth.  He pays their fare.  Through the turnstiles,

     now.

                               MAC

                     Time has come to return the favor.

                     One last time.

     Smiles at her.  As they enter a tunnel.

                               MAC

                     Tell you.  What business.  I'm

                     actually in.

     And in an instant of blind panicked clarity.  She gets the whole

     thing.

                               GIN (hushed)

                     My God.  You're a cop.

                               MAC (very softly)

                     That's my girl.

     Keep walking.  People are everywhere.  But they are alone in the

     world.

                               MAC

                     See, my profession was cover,

                     too.  A notorious thief has access

                     to colleagues, their plans...

     He sighs.

                               MAC

                     I've turned in...well, couple

                     hundred.  over forty years.

                     Scotland Yard, Interpol, FBI...

     Looking around the tunnel.

                               MAC

                     Thought I might retire.  After you.

                               GIN

                     And all the...microchips, the

                     diamond machine...

                               MAC

                     Well, the chips were returned.

                     The machine was just a box, did

                     you 

actually

 think it was real?

     Glances at her.

                               GIN

                     I thought...everything was real.

                     Stupid girl.

     End of the tunnel in sight now.  It leads to a massive, endless

     quai.  Trains in transit.

                               GIN

                     Those were 

your

 jobs, so I could

                     have claimed entrapment.  You had

                     to wait.  For mine.

     Nearly there.  He says nothing.  Looks pretty grim.

                               GIN

                     The Oracle Bone...

                               MAC

                     Well, the State Department liked

                     that one.  They have more fish to

                     fry with Beijing than Taiwan.

     He sighs.

                               MAC

                     So they're taking credit for

                     letting it go through.  Tho I'm

                     afraid your Colonel may be in for

                     a career disappointment.

     She stops walking.  She has to know...

                               GIN

                     And the 5 billion.

     Ah.  That.

                               MAC

                     I haven't told them.

     Gently, takes her arm.  Leads her onto the endless train platform.

     Walking slower now.

                               MAC

                     I said you hadn't revealed the

                     job.  That it wouldn't take place

                     until after the changeover.

     Down the platform they stroll.  As her eyes wander...

                               MAC

                     Don't look, they're there.

     Her breath catches.  Her eyes go down.

                               GIN

                     And my tickets.  In the shopping bag?

                               MAC

                     Well.  Kept my options open.  If

                     I give you up, they don't matter,

                     do they?

     Her heart pounding through her chest.

                               GIN

                     If.

                               MAC

                     Had lots of crazy thoughts.  One

                     was retirement.  With four billion

                     dollars.  After all, I know some

                     places where life could be private...

                               GIN

                     But you couldn't do that, huh?

     They've stopped.  Just two travellers in a strange land.  waiting

     for a train.

                               GIN

                     Otherwise.  They wouldn't be here.

     He nods.  Smiling pleasantly.

                               MAC

                     Creature of habit.  I suppose.

     We feel her adrenaline racing.

                               GIN

                     Lots.  Of thoughts, you s...

                               MAC

                     Keep smiling.  They won't move,

                     until I raise my left arm.

     And so she smiles.  As prettily as she can manage.

                               MAC

                     I thought.  Well, I've got the CD.

                     I could contact the banks, reverse

                     all the transactions...

     A train is COMING.  We HEAR it.

                               MAC

                     ...except maybe.  Leave you with...

                     oh, a hundred million, say.  To

                     tide you over.

     SEE the train.  Slowing.  Pulling in.

                               MAC

                     Then, I thought, nah.  Not my style.

     With a SHRIEK of metal.  The train PULLS toward us.

                               MAC

                     I figured.  What the hell?

     What the hell?

                               MAC

                     Let her keep the lot.

     The train STOPS.  The doors OPEN.  People come out, people go in.

     Pouring around them.  They are alone again.  The subway doors stand

     open.  Two feet away.  She looks at them...

                               MAC

                     No rush.  The doors won't close for

                     60 seconds.

     Sixty seconds.  And still smiling...

                               MAC

                     There's a pistol in the bag.  Reach

                     in slowly.  Take it out fast.  Point

                     it at my temple.

     She freezes to stone.

                               MAC

                     You can do it.  If I say you can.

     And she...DOES IT.  A blinding MOVE, the gun straight at his head,

     Mac miming fear, raising his hands to chill the agents we...

     WHIP PAN to see.  Half a dozen, everywhere, but none too close.

     They REACT, pull their weapons, but it's a stand-off.  BACK TO...

     Two people. Alone in the universe.

                               MAC

                     Step onto the car, keep the

                     pistol trained on my face.

     She hesitates.  Does as he says.  Passengers are screaming,

     cringing, bolting for other cars.  Our world is FROZEN.  His hands

     raised...

                               MAC

                     Seems I was wrong.

     Gentle smile.

                               MAC

                     Entrapment.  Is what robbers.

                     Do to cops, huh?

     Her eyes are flooding.  The gun is trembling.

                               MAC

                     Twenty seconds.  Shoot me in the

                     shoulder, it'll slow them down.

     Her pistol is shaking like she has palsy.  Tears are on her cheeks.

                               GIN

                     Oughta shoot you in the face.

                               MAC

                     Come on, you can do it, if I sa...

                               GIN

                     No way.  Not anymore.

     She sobs.  She can't stand this.

                               MAC

                     Ten seconds, hold on.

                               GIN

                     When do I see you?

     There is no answer.  There are no words.

     The doors HISS SHUT.  She stares, training her pistol on him

     through the glass, his hands reaching back to hold off the agents,

     and the train...

     PULLS away.  An instant to pick up speed, and it ROARS into a

     tunnel.  Gone.

     Mac stands motionless as ALL HELL breaks loose around him, AGENTS

     rushing to his side, Mac shaking his head, calmly...

     Still staring after the train.

                               MAC

                     Airport.  Changing at Mongkok

                     Station, we can cut her off.

     Walkie-talkies WHIP out.  These guys are the same the world over.

     We begin to CRANE UP...

                               MAC

                     She might lose the wig, be looking

                     brunette 

or

 blonde, navy pants suit...

                               AGENT

                     I think Yaumatei changes for the

                     airport, and it's closer.

     Keep PULLING UP, an AERIAL VIEW now, too high to see their faces...

                               MAC (O.S.)

                     I think you're wrong, but cover it.

                     You got maybe four minutes.

     HIGHER still, the mob below an ant colony...

                               MAC (O.S., calmly)

                     No problem.  She's trapped.

     But as the crowd parts.  We can make out one lone man...

     Staring after.  What has gone.

     FADE TO BLACK.  ROLL END CREDITS.

